Front Matter





“BOOKS WORTH READING ONCE ARE WORTH READING TWICE! And what is
most important of all—Masterpieces of literature are worth reading a thousand times.”
—Anonymous
THIS DYNAMIC MESSAGE—Prof. Arnold Ehret's “Mucusless Diet Healing System”—
can be truly considered a “master-piece” in its own right! It is a complete, scientific
Health lesson Course, rich in essential health knowledge, and certainly is not to be read
as a storybook! Students have paid as much as $100.00 for these same lessons—when
taught is person by Prof. Arnold  Ehret,  the  originator  of  the  Mucusless  Diet  Healing
System. Ehret taught that it is incumbent upon us to increase our belief in natural living-
beauty, goodness, truth and faith in our fellow man—so that we may be aware of our
divine  origin.  Through  a  denial  of  this  relationship  we  tend  to  induce  the  growth  of
illness and disease.
Anything  worth-while—such  as  vibrant  vitality  with  abundant  good  health,  to  be
acquired  requires  FAITH  and  DETERMINATION—plus  WILL-POWER!  And  since
work is the medicine of the soul, indulge in the pleasure of doing the necessary for the
maintenance of HEALTH!
Broaden your health knowledge! It is your very life without which you would amount to
little. Follow in all sincerity the health teachings of Prof. Arnold Ehret, this long to be
remembered Disciple of Health, which will be found in this book!
Fred S. Hirsch, Publisher
Note: Fred Hirsch was an associate of Ehret. He was with Ehret when he died in 1922
from a fall on a slippery curb in Los Angeles, as he was leaving one of his lectures. Fred
died in 1979.
 
 

A SCIENTIFIC METHOD OF
EATING YOUR WAY TO HEALTH
A R N O L D
E H R E T'S
Mucusless-Diet
Healing System
BY
PROF. ARNOLD EHRET
A Complete Course for Those Who Desire
to Learn How to Control Their Health
PUBLISHED BY
EHRET LITERATURE PUBLISHING CO., INC. 
DOBBS FERRY, NY 10522-0024

 
 
Ehret Literature Publishing Co., Inc.
Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522-0024
Twenty-Second Edition
Printed in U.S.A.
Copyright © 1953, 1981, 1983, 1994
by the Ehret Literature Publishing Co., Inc.
Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522-0024
All rights reserved, including the rights
to reproduce this book or portions
thereof in any form.
This book is an AUTHENTIC Copy
Of the ORIGINAL version of
Prof. Arnold Ehret's
Mucusless Diet Healing System
ISBN: 978-1-844772-00-9

CONTEMPORARY INSIGHTS TO PROFESSOR EHRET
By David Fastiggi
Author
The End of Disease
What is the fundamental course of disease? Why is this time of heightened scientific
medical advancement in degenerative disease so prevalent? Have we accepted a state of
existence  as  normal,  when  in  fact  so  much  more  is  within  reach?  Are  we  living  a
compromised life? These are serious questions we need to ask, in order to embark upon
the  road  which  truly  leads  to  understanding  of  the  central  cause  of  disease  and  it's
prevention.
At the present time cardiovascular disease claims more lives than all other causes of
death combined. Over twenty five million are affected with Arthritis. Diabetes claims
over five million and ranks third as a cause of blindness in this country. Cancer has
become so very wide spread despite the so called war on cancer. The field of scientific
medical thought is struggling to resolve these problems.
In  the  past  ten  years  the  medical  community  has  understood  the  basics  of  diet  in
relationship to disease and prevention. Effort is being made but, the lax focus and the
weak educational effort is an issue of contention. Why? Because Professor Arnold Ehret
as  well  as  others  have  been  at  least  suggesting  the  role  of  diet  and  disease  for  one
hundred years. Why does it take so long for a response when millions are suffering?
Have  you  been  watching  the  advertisements  for  milk  and  beef  lately?  Industry  is
panicking in the face of the growing awareness of the value of a vegetarian diet. So why
the  contention?  Why  are  so  many  thousands  leaving  the  country  to  seek  alternative
medical treatment for cancer?
In the course of forty years you consume about 42,000 meals. Is it not responsible that
they may have some effect on the human organism? Diet is the basis of blood formation
and the quality of blood is the river of life for your cells. The body is not inert to a
response. The failing health of a person has a link to somewhere.
Professor  Arnold  Ehret  one  hundred  years  ago  taught  through  his  common  sense
reasoning the importance of diet in the cause of disease, its prevention and treatment.
Additionally he offered a glimpse into the possible true state of health, a standard far
higher than believed today in traditional health medical science.
What is it that is guiding man? Progress in technology, to a more comfortable life?
But without the guidelines of natural law what are the trade offs? Air pollution, water
pollution, dumping of toxic waste, and what do we do with radioactive waste? Where
does conscience enter into this process? Professor Ehret was a man of concern for the
morality  and  sacredness  of  life.  His  effort  on  Earth  was  to  educate  people  in  the
relationship between natural law, health and a respect of all life.
Professor Ehret's proclamation of the internal uncleanliness of the human organism is
caused  in  part  by  devitalized,  demineralized,  refined,  chemically  filled  fake  foods  of
modern  civilization.  Autopsies  clearly  show  through  arterial  plaque  and  intestinal

retained waste that the body is in a state of uncleanliness. The foul odor of the bowels
and bad breath are indicators of this impurity.
The field of science is essential. Biochemistry, physiology, nutrition, etc. enables us to
understand  details  of  molecular  function,  and  the  chemistry  behind  the  function  of
systems and organs. Pathways e.g.; Krebs Cycle, bring us to the inner world of cellular
chemistry. This is only half the story however.
Natural law is essential to understand if we are to build a world without disease. The
understanding of natural law is the spiritual, moral, and purposeful force & meaning
behind  something.  Without  this,  science  is  like  sailing  without  a  compass.  We  have
come to realize that in some way or another all things are connected together. As we cut
down rainforests and pollute the air, we understand that it's our own survival at stake.
The Earth is our source of biological life. Arnold Ehret realized this and clearly taught
the direct relationship between the foods of the earth (the right kinds) and health. His
personal validation of his teachings as well as countless others is an outstanding feature
of this man. So many teachers do not practice their own words. It is true that word &
deed  creates  a  man  of  substance.  Truthful  words  and  truthful  deeds  created  a  bright
memorable person, Arnold Ehret.
While science is advancing we learn evermore clearly the wisdom of nature. Today,
science being far more developed than one hundred years ago, is no reason to stumble
over some of the less clear explanations, concepts or science of Prof. Ehret's era. The
essence is this, we must eat right, we must purify our lives and know the Principles that
govern nature, of which mankind is included.
The writings of Arnold Ehret will move your soul. They will cause you to think and
wonder about life in a new way. The laws of nature are unchanging, and thus the insights
of this great man are timeless, and so very much needed for a troubled world.

Contents
Frontispiece – PROF. ARNOLD EHRET
Contents
Alphabetical Index
Publishers' Note