LESSON IV.

Fat and Lean Types
The  bodily  mechanism  of  the  fat  type  is,  on  the  average, mechanically  more
obstructed, because he is in general an overeater of starchy foods. In the lean type there
is  more physiological  chemical  interference  with  the  organism,  such  as  one  being  in
general a one-sided meat eater, which condition produces especially, much acidity, uric
acid, other poisons and pus.
Disease Story
As  a  general  rule  I  ask  my  prospective  patients  the  following  questions  as  the
knowledge to be gained is of great importance:
1.   How long have you been sick?
2.   What did the doctor call your disease?
3.   What was the nature of the treatment?
4.   How much and what kinds of treatment taken?
5.   Have you ever been operated upon?
6.   What other kinds of treatment have you taken before?
(Age, sex, whether a disease is inherited, etc., are important points.)
The most important thing, however, is the patient's diet at present, his special craving
for certain foods and his wrong habits; if constipated, and how long. What kind of diets,
if any, were used before. It is necessary to base the change in diet on the patient's present
diet, and only a SLIGHT CHANGE toward an improved diet is advisable.
The Experimental Diagnosis
THE MOST EXACT, UNERRING DIAGNOSIS WE HAVE IS A SHORT FAST. The more rapidly the
patient  feels  “worse”  thru  a  short  fast,  the  greater  and  the  more  poisonous  is  his
encumbrance.  Should  he  become  dizzy,  suffer  severe  headaches,  etc.,  he  is  greatly
clogged up with mucus and toxemias. If palpitation of the heart occurs it is a sign that
pus is somewhere in the system, or that drugs, even though taken many years ago, are in
the circulation for elimination.
Any  inside  special  “constipated”  place  is  located  by  a  light  pain  there.  The
experimental  practitioner  can  ascertain  better  than  with  X-rays  through  Nature's
revelation  after  a  short  fast  the  true  condition  of  the  inside  of  the  human  body,  and
knows  the  real  diagnosis  more  correctly  than  doctors  can  ascertain  with  all  their
expensive scientific equipment and instruments.
If this “short-fast” diagnosis is tried on the average man called normal and healthy,
but in reality clogged up with mucus—latent disease—Nature reveals the same to you in
a moderate degree, and if a “weak point” has begun to develop, unsuspected by them,
Nature will unerringly indicate where and how he will later become sick if the wrong

method  of  living  is  continued,  although  it  may  be  after  some  years.  This  then  is  the
PROGNOSIS OF DISEASE.
Some Special Diagnosis
To show that all differently named diseases, even the most severe ones, have their
bases and are caused by the same general and constitutional encumbrance of the body, I
shall  show  you,  in  the  light  of  truth,  a  few  characteristic  kinds  of  cases.  Thru  these
illustrative examples I shall prove that there is not a single disease, not a disturbance or
sensation, not an unhealthy appearance or symptom, which cannot be explained and seen
at once in its real nature as local constipation, constitutional constipation by mucus and
its toxemias; most of the quantities continually supplied from the “chronic reserve stock
of waste” in the stomach, intestines, and especially in the colon. The “basement” (colon)
of  the  human  “temple”  is  the  reservoir  from  which  every  symptom  of  disease  and
weakness is supplied in all its manifestations.
A COLD
Is a beneficial effort to eliminate waste from the cavities of the head, the throat and the
bronchial tubes.
PNEUMONIA
The cold goes deeper and will eliminate and clean the mucus from the most spongy
and  vital  organ,  the  lung.  A  hemorrhage  occurs  to  clean  more  radically.  The  entire
system is aroused, causing higher temperature by friction of the waste in circulation.
That proves alarming, and the doctor suppresses by drugs and food, actually blocking
Nature's  process  of  healing—cleansing.  If  the  patient  does  not  die,  the  elimination
becomes chronic, and is called
CONSUMPTION
The consumptive patient eliminates continually his mucus caused from erroneously
increased, mucus-forming foods, thru the lungs instead of thru the natural ways. This
organ itself decays more and more, producing germs, and is then called tuberculosis.
The vital organ (lung)—the pump—works insufficiently on the circulation, the entire
cell system decays more and more, and decomposes before the patient dies.
TOOTHACHE
Its pain is a warning signal of Nature: “Stop eating; I must repair; there is waste and
pus; you have eaten too much lime-poor food, meat.”
RHEUMATISM and GOUT
Mucus  and  uric  acid  particularly  accumulated  in  the  joints,  since  here  is  the  less
dependable part of the tissues for  the  passage  of  the  circulation,  heavily  loaded  with
waste and uric acid in the one-sided meat eater's body.
STOMACH TROUBLE
The  stomach  is  the  central  organ  of  disease  matter  supply.  There  is  a  limit  to  the
ability of this organ to digest and to empty itself after the meal. Every food (even the
best  kinds)  are  mixed  with  this  acid  mucus,  continually  remaining  in  the  average

person's stomach. The wonder is how long the human being can stand such conditions.
GOITER
is a sane deposit by Nature of tremendous waste to keep it from entering the circulation.
BOIL
is in principle the same, only the elimination is outside.
STAMMERING
Special accumulation of mucus in the throat, interfering with the functioning of the
vocal chords. I cured several cases.
LIVER and KIDNEY DISEASES
These organs are of a very spongy construction, and their function is that of a kind of
physiological sieve. They are, therefore, easily constipated by sticky mucus.
SEX DISEASES
These have for their origin nothing more than mucus elimination thru these organs,
and are easily healed. The use of drugs alone produces the characteristic symptoms of
syphilis. The more drugs that have been used, especially mercury, the more carefully the
treatment must be conducted.
EYE and EAR DISEASES
Even short or long sight is congestion in the eyes and trouble with hearing congestion
of those organs. I healed a few kinds of blindness and deafness by the same principles.
 
Mental Diseases
Besides a congested system, I found that anyone mentally diseased has congestion,
especially of the brain. One man on the verge of insanity was cured by a four week's fast.
There  is  nothing  easier  to  heal  than  insanity  by  fasting—such  men  having  lost  their
reason,  their  natural  instinct  tell  them  not  to  eat.  I  learned  that  if  you  heal  by  the
Mucusless Diet Healing System all kinds of diseases, most of the patients are relieved of
greater  or  less  mental  conditions. After  a  fast  comes  a  clearer  mind.  Unity  of  ideas
comes to take the place of differences. Differences of ideas today are caused largely by
diet. If something is wrong with anyone, look first to the stomach. The mentally diseased
man suffers physiologically from gas pressure on the brain.

The Magic Mirror
 
SUPPLEMENT TO DIAGNOSIS – (LESSON III AND IV)
Since  man  degenerated  thru  civilization,  he  no  longer  knows  what  to  do  when  he
becomes sick. Disease remains the same mystery to modern medical science as it was to
the  “Medicine  Man”  of  thousands  of  years  ago—the  main  difference  being  that  the
“germ” theory has replaced the “Demon” and that mysterious outside power still remains
—to harm you and destroy life.
Disease is a mystery to you as well as to every doctor who has not as yet looked into
the “magic mirror”, which I am about to explain. Naturopathy deserves full credit for
having proven that disease is within you—a foreign matter which has weight, and which
must be eliminated.
If you want to become your own physician, or, if you are a Drugless Healer and want
more  success,  you  must  learn  the  truth  and  know  what  disease  is.  You  cannot  heal
yourself, or other people, without an exact diagnosis, which will give you a clear idea of
true conditions. This infallible truth can be learned only from the book of Nature, that is,
thru a test on your own body—or the “magic mirror”, as I have designated it.
The sufferer from any kind of disease—or any person, whether sick or not—who will
go  thru  this  healing  process  of  fasting  and  mucusless  diet,  will  eliminate  mucus—
thereby demonstrating that the basic cause of all latent diseases of man is a clogged up
tissue system of uneliminated, un-used and un-digested food substances.
Thru the “magic mirror” a true and unfailing diagnosis of your disease is furnished, as
never before.
“The Magic Mirror”
1.   Proof that your personal, individual symptom, sore, or sensation, according to
what  your  disease  is  named,  is  nothing  more  than  an  extraordinary  local
accumulation of waste.
2.   The coated tongue is evidence of a constitutional encumbrance thruout the entire
system, which obstructs and congests the circulation by dissolved mucus, and
this mucus even appears in the urine.
3.   The presence of unevaluated feces, retained thru sticky mucus in the pockets of
the  intestines,  constantly  poisoning,  and  thereby  interfering  with  proper
digestion and blood building.
To look inside your body—far better and clearer than can be done by doctors with
expensive X-ray apparatus—and learn the cause of your disease, or even discover some
hitherto unknown physical imperfection or mental condition, try this:
Fast one or two days, or eat fruits only (such as oranges, apples, or any juicy fruit in
season) for two or three days, and you will notice that your tongue will become heavily
coated.  When  this  happens  to  the  acutely  sick,  the  doctor's  conclusion  is  always
—“indigestion”.  The  tongue  is  the  mirror  not  only  of  the  stomach,  but  of  the  entire

membrane system, as well. The fact that this heavy coating returns, even if removed by a
tongue  scraper  once  or  twice  a  day,  is  an  accurate  indication  of  the  amount  of  filth,
mucus and other poisons accumulated in the tissues of your entire system, now being
eliminated on the inside surface of the stomach, intestines and from every cavity of your
body.
You will become further convinced of this fact—of this diagnosis of your disease—by
another surprise in store for you; if you will empty your intestines both before and after
the test.
During the Fast you are truly on Nature's operating table without the use of a knife!
The cleansing eliminating process begins immediately and the knowledge contained in
these lessons provide the needed information necessary to secure the desired results.
After  you  have  fasted,  it  is  advisable  to  decrease  the  quantity  of  your  customary
amount of food and eat only natural, cleansing, mucusless foods (fruits and starchless
vegetables), thereby affording the body an opportunity to loosen and eliminate mucus,
which is, in fact, THE HEALING PROCESS.
This  “mirror”  on  the  tongue's  surface  reveals  to  the  observer  the  amount  of
encumbrance that has been clogging up the system since childhood, thru wrong mucus-
forming foods. After observing the urine during this test, by allowing it to stand for a
few hours, you will note the elimination of quantities of mucus in same.
The  actual  amount  of  filth  and  waste,  which  is  the  “mysterious”  cause  of  your
“trouble”, is almost unbelievable.
Disease—every  disease—is,  first,  a  special,  local  constipation  of  the  circulation,
tissues, pipe system. The manifestation of symptoms, or of the different symptoms. If
painful and inflamed, it is from over-pressure-heat or inflammation caused from friction
and congestion.
Second, disease—every disease—is constitutional constipation. The entire human pipe
system, especially the microscopically small capillaries are “chronically” constipated,
through the wrong food of civilization.
White blood corpuscles are waste—and there is no man in Western civilization who
has mucus-free blood and mucus-free blood vessels. It is like the soot in a stovepipe
which has never been cleaned; in fact, worse, because the waste from protein and starchy
foods is STICKY.
The characteristics of tissue construction, especially of the important internal organs,
such as the lungs, kidneys, all glands, etc., are very much similar to those of a sponge.
Imagine a sponge soaked in paste or glue!
Naturopathy  must  more  and  more,  cleanse  its  science  from  medical  superstitions,
wrongly called “scientific diagnosis”. Nature alone is the teacher of a standard science of
truth. She heals thru one thing—FASTING—every disease that is possible to heal. This
alone is proof that Nature recognizes but one disease, and that in every body the largest
factors  are  always  waste,  foreign  matter  and  mucus  (besides  uric  acid  and  other
toxemias, and, very often, pus-if tissues are decomposed).

In order to realize how terribly clogged up the human body is, one must have seen
thousands of fasters-as I have. The almost inconceivable fact is, how can such quantities
of  waste  be  stored  up  in  the  body?  Have  your  ever  stopped  to  realize  the  masses  of
phlegm  you  expel  during  a  cold?  And  just  as  it  is  taking  place  in  your  head,  your
bronchial tubes, lungs, stomach, kidneys, bladder, etc., have the same appearance. All are
in the same condition. And the spongy organ known as the tongue accurately mirrors on
its surface the appearance of every other part of your body.
Medicine  has  devised  a  “special  science”  of  laboratory  tests,  urinal  diagnosis  and
blood tests.
More than fifty years ago, the most prominent pioneers of Naturopathy said: “Every
disease is foreign matter—waste”. I said twenty years ago, and repeat it again and again,
that most of these foreign matters are paste produced from wrong foods, decomposed-to
be seen when it leaves the body as mucus. Meat decomposes into pus.
The  light  of  truth  dawned  upon  me  after  I  had  fasted,  against  the  will  of  the
Naturopath from whom I was taking treatment for Bright's disease. When the test-tube
filled up with albumen, I read his thoughts in his facial expression. But to me it proved
that whatever Nature expels-eliminates-is waste; whether it be albumen, sugar, mineral
salt or uric acid. This occurred more than twenty-four years ago, but this Nature-doctor
(a former M.D.) still believes in the replacement of albumen by high protein foods.
The medical diagnosis of Bright's disease, when the chemical test of urine shows a
high  percentage  of  albumen,  is  as  misleading  as  others.  The  elimination  of  albumen
proves that the body does not need it. That it is over-fed, over-loaded with high protein
stuff. Instead of decreasing these poison producing foods, they are wrongly increased,
endeavoring to replace the “loss”, until the patient dies. How tragic to replace waste,
while Nature is endeavoring to save you, by removing it!
The next important laboratory test is that of sugar in the urine, Diabetes. The medical
dictionary still calls it “mysterious”. Instead of eating natural sweets, which go into the
blood and which can be used, the diabetic patient is fed eggs, meat, bacon, etc., and, in
fact, actually starves to death thru lack of natural, sugar-containing and sugar-producing
foods, which have been withheld.
It has long since been proven that all of these blood tests, especially the Wassermann
test, are a fallacy.
We, as Naturopaths, cannot ignore Nature's teaching in any way, even tho we may find
it difficult to discard old errors hammered into us since childhood.
One of the most misleading errors is the individual naming of all disease. The name of
any disease is not important, and not of any value whatsoever when starting a natural
cure, especially thru fastings and diet. If every disease is caused thru foreign matters
(and it most assuredly is) then it is only important and necessary to know how great and
how much the amount of the patient's encumbrance actually is-how far and how much
his  system  is  clogged  up  by  foreign  matters,  and  how  much  his  vitality  has  become
lowered (see Lesson 5), and, in case of tuberculosis or cancer, if the tissues themselves
are decomposed. (Pus and germs).

I  have  had  hundreds  of  cases  tell  me  that  every  doctor  they  called  upon  gave  a
different  diagnosis,  and  a  correspondingly  different  name  for  their  ailment  I  always
surprised them by saying, “I know exactly what ails you, thru facial diagnosis, and you
will see yourself in the ‘magic mirror’ within a few days”.
The Experimental Diagnosis
Just as I have already stated in the beginning of this lesson, you must fast for two or
three days. In the case of a fatty type, liquids should be used during the fast. The surface
of  the  tongue  will  clearly  indicate  the  appearance  on  the  inside  of  the  body,  and  the
patient's breath will prove the amount and grade of decomposition. It is even possible to
tell the kind of food they preferred most!
Should pain be felt at any one place during the beginning of the fast, you may be sure
that  this  is  a  weak  point  and  the  symptom  is  not  sufficiently  developed  for  medical
doctors to reveal it thru their examination.
Waste will show up in the urine with clouds of mucus, and mucus will be expelled
from the nose, throat and lungs as well as the feces. The weaker and more miserable the
patient  may  feel  during  the  fast,  the  greater  is  his  encumbrance,  and  the  weaker  his
vitality.
This experimental diagnosis tells you exactly what the trouble is, and how to correct it
by starting with a moderate transition diet-or a more radical one-and whether to continue
or discontinue the fast.
This  experiment  is  the  foundation,  the  basis  of  the  development  of  the  science  of
Nature cure, physics, chemistry, etc. It is the question put to Nature, and she replies with
the same infallible answer, always and everywhere.
If the patient becomes nervous, or symptoms of heart trouble occur, you may be sure
that he has drugs stored up in his body. A consumptive patient starts with such terrible
elimination,  after  a  short  fast,  that  it  must  be  plain  to  all  how  ignorant  and  how
impossible it is to try and cure him with “good nourishing foods”, such as eggs and milk.
The above explanation is the experimental diagnosis, and the only scientific one. You
cannot secure a better view inside than by this simple method. No expensive apparatus
can show more accurately the exact conditions as they exist inside the body. All other
examinations including iris-diagnosis, diagnosis of the spine, etc., are never exact and,
therefore, not dependable.
Nature's  mirrors,  her  revelations,  her  demonstrations—of  and  by  phenomena-are
“magic” only so long as you lack the correct interpretation of them. Nature show and
plainly reveals to you everything, far more exact, perfect and better than all “science of
diagnosis” put together.
The Prognosis of Disease
And now we come to the prognosis of disease. We hear of “latent” disease. Everyone,
no matter to what extent he may enjoy “good health”, has a latent sickness, and Nature
only awaits an opportunity to eliminate the waste stored up since childhood-and on.
Everyone  knows,  but  fails  to  understand,  that  a  severe  “shock”,  such  as  a  cold-or

“influenza”  over  the  entire  body,  starts  an  elimination;  but,  unfortunately,  Nature  is
handicapped in her attempted housecleaning, thru the doctor's advice to continue eating,
thru  the  use  of  drug,  etc., obstructing  elimination  and  producing  acute  and  chronic
diseases.
Anyone, even tho not sick-especially in the critical age between thirty and forty- may
fast a few days, and thru the “magic mirror”, learn the extent of his latent disease; where
his weak point is located, as well as the name of his latent disease, and where it will
appear.  That  is  the  prognosis  of  disease,  and  if  life  insurance  companies  would  only
believe in it, would furnish a true and safe method of determining “risks”.
Fasting  until  the  tongue  is  clean  is  dangerous.  Who  can  explain  why  the  tongue
becomes clean after breaking a short fast with a “square” meal, and why the “magic
mirror” shows up more waste, if you live on fruits or mucusless diet, after the fast? This
is the hitherto unexplained mystery of the “magic mirror”. And the simple explanation is
that the elimination is stopped for a while, thru the eating of wrong foods, and as a result
you feel better for a time with wrong foods than with fruits. And during this period even
the “magic mirror” apparently misleads you into thinking the body is clean. A return to
natural foods soon proves otherwise.
For  the  ordinary  person  it  will  require  from  one  to  three  years  of  systematically
continued fastings and natural, cleansing diet, before the body is actually cleansed of
“foreign matters”. You may then see how the body is constantly eliminating waste, thru
the entire outside surface of the body, from every pore of the skin, the urinal canal and
the colon, from the eyes and ears, and from the nose and throat. You can see how wet as
well as dried mucus (dandruff, for instance) is being expelled. All diseases, therefore, are
immense quantities of waste, “chronically” stored up and, thru this artificial elimination
of “chronic disease” you will agree with me and realize that I do not exaggerate when I
state:
The diagnosis of your disease-of all diseases of mankind both mental and physical,
since  the  beginning  of  civilization,  proves  that  they  all  have  the  same  foundational
cause-whatever the symptoms may be. It is, without exception, one and the same general
and universal condition-a one-ness of all disease, that is; waste, foreign matter, mucus
and its poisons.
“Internal impurity” is too mild an expression for chronic constipation, waste – filth –
mucus – stench (offensive odor) or “Invisible Waste”, is the true description.

The Formula of Life