LESSON V.

The Secret of Vitality
“V” = “P” – “O” (“V” equals “P” minus “O”) is the formula of life—and yet at the
same time you may call it the formula of death.
“V” stands for VITALITY.
“P”, or call it “X”, the unknown quantity in this question, is the POWER that drives
the human machinery, which keeps you alive, which gives you strength and efficiency,
endurance for as yet an unknown length of time without food!
“O” means OBSTUCTION, encumbrance, foreign matters, toxemias, mucus; in short,
all  internal  impurities  which  obstruct  the  circulation,  the  function  of  internal  organs
especially, and the human engine in its entire functioning system.
You can therefore see thru this equation that as soon as “O” becomes greater than “P”
the human machine must come to a standstill.
The engineer can figure exactly “E = P − F”, meaning that the amount of energy or
efficiency “E” he secures from an engine is not equal to the power “P” without first
deducting “F', the friction.
The ingenious idea of construction of the ideal engine is to make it work with the
smallest amount of friction. Should we transfer this fundamental and principal idea on
the human engine, we see that it involves the terrible ignorance of medical physiology
and that Naturopathy found a true way of healing by removing—eliminating obstructions
—that is, foreign matters of encumbrance, mucus and its toxemias.
But  just  what  vitality  really  is  and  how  tremendous  it  can  become,  what  a  higher,
superior, absolute health is, has not up to the present date been shown or proven. I will
teach in the following lessons a principally different NEW PHYSIOLOGY, based on the
correction of medical errors of blood-circulation, blood-composition, blood-building and
metabolism.  For  this  purpose  it  is  necessary  that  you  first  learn  what  vitality—what
animal life really is.
It is generally admitted, that the secret of vitality, the secret of animal life is unknown
to  science.  It  will  surprise  you  when  shown  the  truth  thru  a  simple,  natural
enlightenment, and you must admit at once that it is THE TRUTH. Always remember
this  fact:  “Whatever  can  not  be  seen,  conceived  at  once,  thru  simple  reasoning  is
humbug, and not science!”
The human engine must first be seen before all other physiological considerations as
an air-gas engine, built and constructed in its entirety, with the exception of the bones,
from a rubber-like, very elastic, spongy material, called flesh and tissues.
The next fact is that its function is that of a pump system by air-pressure, and with an
inside circulation of liquids, such as the blood and other saps, and that THE LUNGS
ARE  THE  PUMP  AND  THE  HEART  IS  THE  VALVE—and  not  the  opposite—as
erroneously taught by medical physiology for the past 400 years!

A  further  fact—one  that  has  been  almost  entirely  overlooked—is  the  automatic,
atmospheric  outside  counter-pressure,  which  is  over  14  pounds  to  the  square  inch.
Immediately upon, and after each outbreath a vacuum is created in the lung cavity. In
other words, the human body animal organism in its entirety, functions automatically by
inhaling  air-pressure  and  expelling  chemically  changed  air  and  outside  atmospheric
counter-pressure on the vacuums of the body. That is vitality, animal life in the first
instance and importance. That is “P” (power) which keeps you alive—without air you
cannot live five minutes!
But the unseen fact, let us say the secret, is that it works simply and automatically thru
atmospheric counter-pressure, which is only possible because the “engine” consists of
elastic,  spongy  material  with  a  vital  strain  power—with  an  ability  of  vibration,
expansion and contraction. Those two facts were the unknown secrets concerning the
automatic  function  of  “P”  as  the  phenomena  of  vitality,  and  the  Chemist  Hensel  has
proven  thru  chemical  physiological  formulas  that  this  special  vital  elasticity  of  the
tissues is due to a lime sugar combination.
The Latin word “spira” means first, air and then spirit: “The breath of God” is in fact
first, good fresh air! It has been said that breathing is life, and it is true that you develop
vitality, health, thru physical and breathing exercises. It is also true that you can remove
“O” (obstruction) by higher air-pressure and counter-pressure in this way. It is true that
you  remove  and  eliminate  obstructions  of  foreign  matter  by  local  and  constitutional
vibrations, consisting of all kinds of physical treatments. It is true that you eliminate
disease  matters  and  obstructions,  and  therefore  relieve  every  kind  of  disease  thru  an
artificial  speeding  of  the  circulation,  giving  more  “air-gas”  and  vibrating  the  tissues.
You increase “P” (power) artificially for a certain time, but you decrease the vital ability
of the function of counter-pressure, weakening the rubber like elasticity of the tissues. In
other words, you increase “P” but not “V”—to the contrary—this is done, and can be
done only at the expense of “V”. You know from experience what happens to a rubber
band continually kept stretched or over-expanded. It loses its elasticity.
You  relieve  diseases,  but  you  slowly  lower  vitality,  particularly  of  the  especially
elastic and spongy important organs of lung, liver, kidney, etc. You relieve but do not
heal  diseases perfectly;  you  lower  vitality,  just  so  long  as  you  loosen,  remove  and
eliminate obstructions, exclusively thru political means (agents) and just so long as you
do not stop the supply, the taking in of waste, of obstruction,—by wrong mucus-forming,
that is—disease-building unnatural foods, you lower vitality.
Would anyone attempt to clean an engine thru a continually higher speed and shaking.
No! You would first flush with a dissolving liquid and then change your fuel supply,
should it be a steam engine, and obstructions thru waste being caused through the coal
burning only partly.
This  involves  the  problem  of  dietetics,  which  culminates  in  the  solution  of  these
questions over its history: WHICH ARE THE BEST FOODS? Meaning, which foods give
most energy, endurance, health and increased vitality, or which foods are the basic cause
of diseased conditions and growing old? What is the essence of life, of vitality, breathing
exercise, activity—a perfect mind or right food?

My formula, the equation shown in the heading, gives the enlightening answer and
solves the problem in its entire mystery. Decrease “O” first by decreasing quantities of
food of all kinds, or even eliminate food entirely (fasting), if conditions tell you; second,
stop, or at least decrease by all means, obstruction-causing mucus-forming foods, and
increase dissolving, eliminating, obstruction-removing foods and you then increase “P”,
meaning  a  more  unobstructed  function  of  “P”  of  air-pressure,  of  the  infinite,
inexhaustible  power  source.  In  other  words,  the  problem  of  vitality  and  animal  life
functioning at all, consists in unobstructed, perfect circulation by air-pressure, and in a
vital elasticity of the tissues thru proper food as the necessary counter-pressure for the
function of life.
“P”  is  infinite,  unlimited,  and  practically  the  same  everywhere  and  on  everybody
continually the same, but its activity slows down in the tempo (speed) as you accumulate
obstructions, as you overeat and eat wrongly, lowering the automatic counter-pressure of
the tissues.
You may now see that vitality does not depend immediately, directly and primarily
from food or from a right diet. If you eat too much of the best foods, especially in a body
full of wastes and poisons, it is impossible for them to enter into your blood stream in a
clean state and become “efficiency-giving” vital substances. They are mixed with and
poisoned by mucus and auto-toxemias and actually lower vitality—they increase “O”
instead of “P”. You now see and you may realize very deeply that it is worthless to figure
food values with the intention of increasing “P” or “V” as long as the body is full of “O”.
The  problem  is  solved  by  my  system,  consisting  of  periodical  minor  fastings,
alternating  with  cleansing, not nourishing, mucus-less and mucus-poor menus. Not as
wrongly done with the idea that “V” is directly increased in a sick person thru feeding
clean  food.  Remove  “O”  thru  intelligent,  personally  prescribed  menus.  “P”  increases
automatically after a fast thru its unobstructed function. You can now realize how wrong
and insufficient it is for people to think that all there is to the “Mucus-less Diet” is
knowing the right foods!
Here, then, is the cause why so many “fasting”, “fruit-diet”, etc., “cures” fail. The
INEXPERIENCED LAYMAN ALWAYS COMES TO THE DEATH POINT. In other words, he removes
“O” too rapidly, too much at once and feels “fine” for awhile, the dissolving process
goes deeper—“O” increases—he feels terribly weak, falls back on wrong diet, and thru
this wrong diet stops the elimination of more obstructions, feels well again, blames the
good food for his weakness and sees the wrong food as the food of vital efficiency. He
loses his faith and tells you in all sincerity, “I have tried it, but it is wrong”. He blames
the  system,  entirely  ignorant  regarding  it,  when  he  lone  is  to  blame.  Here  is  the
stumbling block even of other diet experts and Naturopaths experimenting in dietetics.
Lesson 7 will divulge this secret.
Some have had more experiences, but very few think as I do that Vitality, Energy and
Strength is not derived from food at all! They believe it is acquired thru sleep, etc. What
I have learned and what I know thru years of experimenting, fasting and diet, and what I
have actually demonstrated can be found in my book, “Rational Fasting”, but briefly
stated, it is this:

First—Vitality does not depend primarily and directly upon food, but rather from the
facts of how far and how much the function of the human engine is obstructed—“clogged
up” by the obstructions of mucus and toxemias.
Second—Removing  “O”  by  artificially  increasing  “P”  thru  artificial  stimulants,
shaking and vibrating tissues thru physical treatments is always done at the expense of
“V”, Vitality.
Third—Vital  energy,  physical  and  mental  efficiency,  endurance,  superior  health  by
“P”, air and water alone, is tremendous, beyond imagination, as soon as “P” works and
can work without “O”-without obstruction and friction in a perfectly clean body.
Fourth—The limit of going without food and before solid food becomes necessary
under such ideal conditions, is yet unknown.
Fifth—The composition of “P”, besides air, oxygen and a certain quantity of water-
steam, increases—but only in a clean body—thru  the  following other agents from the
infinite:
ELECTRICITY; OZONE; LIGHT (especially sunlight); ODOR (good smells of fruit
and flowers).
Further, it is not impossible that under such clean, natural conditions, nitrogen of the
air may be assimilated.
In the following lesson I teach you a new  but true physiology  of  the body, which is
necessary to know in order to understand why and how the MUCUSLESS DIET HEALING
SYSTEM functions in its complete perfection, and for this purpose it was first necessary to
lift the veil from the secret, FROM THE MYSTERY OF VITALITY

The New Physiology