introduction of chemical fertilizers and poisonous chemical sprays which have enabled

the farmer to double, and even treble, his farm crop. Gradual recognition of the serious
effects and the injurious results to the human body produced by these foods is becoming
more  commonplace.  While  it  is  true  man  continues  to  exist  and  will  not  be  entirely
destroyed, we must recognize the limits of the human ability of endurance. Our goal
should be optimum health and long life free of disease.
In the interest of bringing Professor Ehret's great work up to date, we are, therefore,
presenting it in a new and revised edition.
In  mentioning  these  discoveries,  the  publishers  feel  they  are  making  a  logical
contribution to the book. However, it should be emphatically stated that Professor Ehret
would  not  have  been  “sold”  on  any  discovery  that  ignored  the  basic  essential  of  his
philosophy—that Nature  alone  is  the  primary  healer!  The  fact  that  most  so-called
“cures”  have  retained  only  temporary  popularity  and  have  already  been  the  target  of
contradictory claims, and even condemnation by recognized medical authorities, would
tend to substantiate Professor Ehret's viewpoint.
Professor  Ehret  studied  extensively  in  Europe  in  world  renowned,  recognized
universities and attained a brilliant record in various field of science while a student.
Although  he  acquired  considerable  proficiency  in  a  number  of  languages  including
German, French and Italian, his English was self-taught after his arrival in the United
States.  Despite  the  language's  difficulty  he  was  soon  able  to  express  himself
exceptionally well, as evidenced by his many treatises written in English. Because of a
natural desire to preserve the sincerity and vigor of his presentation his publishers feel
reluctant to edit his work if it could possibly be avoided. In consideration of these facts
the  reader  and  student  will,  undoubtedly,  be  greatly  impressed  by  the  simplicity  and
clarity of the exposition of his subject.
 
Fred S. Hirsch
Publisher
