BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

of
PROF. ARNOLD EHRET
Author of “Rational Fasting” and Originator of the
“Mucusless-Diet Healing System ”
Teacher of Dietetics, Faster and Lecturer
BY PROF. B. W. CHILD
I knew Professor Ehret first as an author, later as a sanitarium proprietor and lecturer,
and now esteem him highly as a friend and the pioneer of the most complete natural and
scientific  system  or  cult  for  the  Cure  and  Prevention  of  Disease  known.  I  have  no
hesitancy in stating that he has evolved and developed what now seems to be the “last
word” in regard to health and longevity.
He was born July 25, 1866, near Freiburg, in Baden, Germany, and lived to be 56 years
of age, and was endowed by his father with a natural bent or extraordinary desire for
delving into the causes and reasons for occurrences and results.
Ehret's education was obtained at a college where the long walk added to the other
work on the farm, on an ordinary diet, brought on a severe attach of bronchial catarrh. In
spite of this handicap he graduated with honors. His greatest interest being for physics,
chemistry, drawing and painting, he took a special academic course and graduated as
professor of drawing for high schools and colleges, at 21 years of age. He taught at a
college until drafted for military service, but was released after nine months' service
because of Neurasthenic heart trouble”, resuming his vocation as a teacher. At 31 years
of age he was quite fleshy and “looked well”, as others said, but was suffering from
kidney trouble, Bright's disease, with consumptive tendency.
In  his  own  words:  Five  times  I  took  vacations  to  recuperate,  but  finally  was
pronounced “incurable” and resigned. Then for five years I “suffered much from many
physicians” (24 in all) and part of this suffering was to pay the bills of about $6,000, but
with  the  result  pronounced  “incurable”.  Physically  and  nearly  mentally  bankrupt,  I
thought of suicide, but accidentally heard  of  natuopathy  and  was  treated  at  a  Kneipp
sanitarium three different times, getting some relief and a desire to live, but not cured.
Was treated at five or six other Nature Cure sanitariums and tried all other methods
known in Europe, expending more thousands, with the result that while not down sick,
neither  was  I  healthy.  I  learned  something  from  the  experiences,  though;  the  main
symptoms were mucus or pus and albumin in the urine and pain in the kidneys. The
doctors,  on  the  presumption  that  a  clear  urine  indicated  health,  tried  to  stop  these
elimination's with drugs and to replace the albumin by a meat, egg, and milk diet, but it
only increased the disastrous results. I reasoned out from these methods what seemed
like  a  great  light  on  the  subject,  that  the  right  diet  should  be  free  from  mucus  and
albumin. My naturopathic treatment drew out some of the mucus by baths, exercise, etc.,
but fed it back by wrong diet.
I resolved to face what seemed a tragedy for me (and does now to most chronically

sick persons after getting no relief from doctors), and try for myself that which I had
learned from past experience, that wrong eating was the cause and right eating might be
the cure. There was vegetarianism, fruit and nut diet, numerous food “cures” and a few
hints that fasting would help. I went to Berlin to study vegetarianism, as there were over
twenty  vegetarian  restaurants  there  at  that  time.  My  first  observation  was  that
vegetarians were not much more healthy than meat eaters, for many looked sickly and
pale. With the starchy food and milk I grew slowly worse, but started a course of study at
the university of medicine, physiology, and chemistry. I visited a school of naturopathy,
learned something of mental healing, Christian Science, magnetic healing, etc., etc., all
to try to find out the real and fundamental truths of perfect health. Was more or less
disappointed and went to Nice, in southern France, and tried a radical fruit diet with the
exception of a pint of milk a day, thinking then that I needed the albumin. I made no
special application of the fruit diet to my condition, as most others did not, and received
but little benefit. Some days I felt well and on others felt very bad, so I soon went back
home, returning to the so-called “good eating”, as lived and suggested by well-meaning
friends,  relatives  and  physicians.  I  had  learned  something  about  fasting,  but  it  was
opposed by all friends and relatives; even my former naturopathic doctor told my sister
that to a person with Bright's disease a few days' fast would prove fatal.
The  next  winter  I  went  to  Algiers,  in  northern  Africa.  The  mild  climate  and  the
wonderful fruits improved my condition and gave me more faith in Nature's methods and
an understanding of them, and I gained courage to try short fasts to assist the cleansing
properties of fruit and climate, with such results that one morning of a well feeling day I
chanced to notice in my mirror that my face had taken on an entirely new look; that of a
younger and healthy looking person. But on the next bad feeling day the old and sickly
looking face returned, yet it did not last long and these alternating changes in my face
impressed me as a “revelation” from Nature that I had found out her methods in part and
was on the right track, and I resolved to study them more and live them closer in my
future life.
An indescribable feeling never known before of better health, more vital energy, better
efficiency,  and  more  endurance  and  strength  came  to  me  and  gave  me  great  joy  and
happiness just to be alive. This was not only of the physical, but there was a great change
in my mental ability to perceive, to remember, greater courage and hope, and above all
an insight into the spiritual which became like a sunrise, throwing light upon all higher
and spiritual problems. All my faculties were improved, far surpassing their best during
my healthiest and best youth. My physical efficiency and endurance became wonderfully
increased. I took a bicycle trip of about 800 miles, from Algiers to Tunis, accompanied
by a trained bicyclist who lived on an ordinary diet. I was never behind him but often
ahead towards night when endurance became the test. Keep in mind that I was formerly a
candidate for death, so declared by the doctors, but now jubilant that I could surpass the
most efficient, and a constant joy of exhilaration having escaped the “slaughter house” of
mankind, called “Scientific Medical Clinics”.
Arriving home again, I demonstrated my ability and endurance to perform the hardest
farm labor and in tests of strength superior to those in good training on the ordinary diet,
but being surrounded by friends and relatives who were living in the ordinary way and
coming in contact with professional men who were excited by fear that my discoveries

were  of  true  principles  and  would  eventually  succeed  and  surpass  those  they  were
practicing, I gradually took up the ordinary diet. Fasting was then very unpopular and
living in the family of my sister who threatened to prevent it should I attempt one, I
could not take up again what I firmly believed and had proven by actual experience, that
fasting (simply eating less) was Nature's Omnipotent method of cleansing the body from
the effects of wrong and too much eating. I had also found it the “Master Key” to mental
and spiritual unfoldment and evolution. I had not neglected the study of the scientific
reasons  why  fruit  and  mucusless  foods  were  so  efficient,  and  had  found  that  they
developed during the process of digestion what was known as Grape Sugar, and from
what was termed carbohydrates by analysis. My experience, tests, and experiments as
well as cures, all showed that grape sugar of fruits was the essential material of human
food, giving the highest efficiency and endurance, and at the same time was the best
eliminator of debris and the most efficient healing agent known for the human body.
This was in direct contradiction of the nitrogenous-albumin theory of the doctors and
scientists and also of the more modern theory of “mineral salts”. In 1909 I wrote an
article denouncing the Metabolic theory and in 1912 learned that Dr. Thomas Powell of
Los Angeles had made the same discovery and was making remarkable cures by using
foods containing what he called “organic carbon”, which is the same food ingredients
that develop into grape sugar during digestion. With the embryo of these discoveries in
mind and my experiences I left my friends and relatives, who would have shortened my
life by their well-meaning kindness, and, accompanied by a young man who was won by
my  experience  to  try  with  me  experimental  diet  and  fasting  for  his  ailments,  the
principal one being stuttering, went to southern France. Here, during several months of
experiments, I renewed my experiences in Africa and won a firmer belief than ever that
fruit  diet  and  fasting  were  Nature's  infallible  factors  for  regaining  and  maintaining  a
superior health than is enjoyed by most of civilized mankind.
The results obtained were often called miraculous, but were only marvelous because
of their rareness. The knowledge I had gained of the wonderful methods by which Nature
carried on the cleansing from the impurities from wrong food, and then the regenerating,
repairing and strengthening, by the right food, was the marvel, but not a miracle.
Especially  important  were  the  results  on  this  comparatively  young  man—ten  years
younger than I. We made tests with all the general foods of civilization after cleansing
fasts. Our now more sensitive organs revolted at once against their undesirable elements
and especially against combinations, giving the most convincing evidence that modern
cooking,  with  its  mixtures,  with  but  little  knowledge  of  their  qualities,  was  the
fundamental cause of all diseases. It is impossible to know what food really is and its
effects until the body has been cleansed by Nature's own method, a fast. I have never
known of such experiments ever being made by anyone, and the facts gained have now
been so abundantly proven during may years of the most searching and difficult practice
that they have raised my knowledge above all doubts or arguments about the dietetic
opinions of others.
To  test  our  efficiency  at  exhaustive  labor,  we  took  a  trip  through  northern  Italy,
walking for 56 hours continuously without sleep or rest or food, only drink. This after a
seven-day fast and then only one meal of two pounds of cherries. This was called by the

professional minds that knew of it a most marvelous test, from their viewpoint. From
what came the energy for this efficiency? From nitrogen, albumin, organic salts, fats,
vitamins, or from what? After a 16-hour walk I made a test of knee bendings and arm
extendings, 360 times in a few minutes, and later numerous strength tests with athletic
competitors showing superior results. These after being pronounced incurable and my
father and brother having died of consumption. During our trip through Italy we were
often subjects of interesting comments by ladies on our ruddy and healthy complexion
and  inquiries  of  how  we  brought  it  about,  etc. As  a  completely  transformed  man,  I
desired higher experiences, as they were not only physical, but mental and spiritual. The
same with my young companion. He was wonderfully improved in many ways, but his
stuttering showed, no change. I had the idea that even that was caused by a physical
encumbrance of debris. We proceeded to a secluded place on the island of Capri and
there took longer fasts and daily sunbaths with heat around 120o of four to six hours. We
were so well cleansed that we did not sweat. On the eighteenth day my young friend
became  quite  hoarse,  and  fearing  he  would  lose  his  voice—not  then  knowing  what
caused it—ended his fast with about three pounds of figs, at my suggestion, with the
result that for nearly an hour he raised a very large quantity of mucus from his throat and
his  body  cleansed  itself  in  other  directions.  His  voice  soon  being  restored  and  his
stuttering disappeared and has never returned. We had accomplished what his rich father
had in vain tried to do by employing almost every known treatment for him, without the
slightest permanent improvement.
Fasting, Nature's Supreme Remedy, has been so crudely practiced, and is so generally
misunderstood,  that  it  is  very  important  that  it  be  rightly  explained.  From  my  long
experience in curing myself by fasting and mucusless diet, and in conducting fasts for
many hundred in my sanitarium in Switzerland, during a period of over ten years, I can
state with certainty of its wonderful potency and benefits when rightly conducted. My
first experience brought such beneficial results that I desired to perfect and verify the
methods employed, so I continued my observations and investigations of and into all
phases of life. I made many and very extensive experiments, and then my fully restored
young friend and myself started on a long trip. First, through southern Italy, walking and
living  on  an  almost  exclusive  grape  diet;  then  by  boat  to  Egypt,  Palestine,  Turkey,
Rumania and Austria, home. On this trip we learned much of the diet, habits, mentality
and health of the different peoples, and especially in the Orient, and with the result that
my belief in the superiority of European civilization received a severe shock, and my
belief strengthened that I was on the right track for a knowledge of a much superior
health with a better mental development, and a more active and longer life.
In Egypt, we saw a race of people of extraordinary strength and endurance, living on a
scanty vegetarian diet mostly, but with two supposedly bad habits—cigarette smoking
and drinking strong coffee, yet we saw not a single nervous or toxemic person. To see
how few kinds and how little food they ate, to learn that they are about the same kinds of
foods  that  their  ancestors  ate,  gives  one  a  reason  for  the  superior  qualities  of  old
Egyptian civilization.
In Palestine we stayed several months, studying local customs, records and history of
past  conditions,  with  the  result  that  my  conception  of  the  real  meaning  of  the  New
Testament  gospels  was  changed  very  much.  I  learned  that  Christ's  life  and  teachings

were in strict accord with now well known natural laws, which brought him superior
intelligence and superior health, but that when written up from current hearsay some 150
years  after,  was  colored  by  oriental  forms  of  expression  and  metaphors,  and  their
incomplete  knowledge  of  natural  phenomena.  What  was  marvelous  was  thought
miraculous. His “forerunners”, his fastings, his diet, and manner of living, and that of his
associates, all reveal the natural living, which brought him superior health with no need
of any special divine assistance. He verified this by stating that future generations would
“do greater works than he did”, as they would get a better knowledge of natural—God's
—“unchangeable”  laws  and  methods.  My  “coming  book”  will  state,  with  convincing
proof,  that  Christ's  parentage,  so-called  miracles  of  healing,  and  apparent  changes  of
natural law, his resurrection and ascension, into “Heaven”, were in accord with natural
law, but not then, and not wholly now, understood. The present ignorance of the laws
underlying normal health is now, in this century, the greatest of all the past centuries,
and  is  evidenced  by  the  deterioration  of  the  so-called  civilized  people,  health-wise,
although  advanced  far,  in  many  ways.  What  I  have  learned  by  my  researches  and
experiences, and the possibilities of restoring humanity to a superior health, with the
advance of modern times, is like opening a “Book of Seven Seals”. To show Christ's life
in the sunlight of really natural and scientific laws, therefore eternal and really divine,
identical with those of our own nature, is an inspiration and an aspiration which many
are now enjoying and no one should miss.
The other countries visited revealed phases and facts of natural health principles, and I
took up with more confidence and enthusiasm than ever before the perfection of my own
health by fasting experiments and an improved diet. I instinctively felt and soon proved
that certain natural foods prepared in the right way, had a superior energy producing
power, and also a superior cleansing power, when rightly used, and in connection with an
intelligent abstinence from any food, for the prevention as well as curing diseases of all
kinds.  That  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  individual's  encumbrance  with  disease
debris—not germs—and his age, occupation, climate, season of the year, etc., that even
the then so-called incurable diseases were helped in a uniform and orderly manner, and a
cure certain, if not too much encumbered by habits and age. The right kinds and less
food  as  a  preparation  for  short  or  longer  fasts  as  the  condition  indicated,  gives  the
digestive organs a rest or “vacation” from over-work, and then the resuming of eating by
a selection of the right kinds, (this being very important) brings wonderfully surprising
and  beneficial  results.  I  fasted  for  twenty-four  days  with  such  marvelously  pleasing
results,  not  only  to  my  physical  condition,  but  to  my  mental  and  my  aspirations
spiritually, that my enthusiasm increased to tell my friends and other of my discoveries,
experiences and conclusive results. I could not describe my feelings, but told them they
must experience them for themselves, which some took up at once. I commenced my
educational work by public fasts and lessons, fasting twice in large German cities, and
twice in Switzerland. I was sealed in a room by Notaries of State, and strictly watched
and controlled by physicians, and with no outside interference or communications. One
fast of 21 days, one of 24, one of 32, one of 49 days in Cologne, all within a period of 14
months. Between these fasts, and after, my work was lecturing, giving tests of physical
and  mental  efficiency,  proving  the  value  of  what  I  had  learned  and  experienced,  and
these  forced  me  to  teaching  and  advising  others,  writing  articles,  and  starting  a
sanitarium in Switzerland, and advising by correspondence.

My first written article was after my forty-nine day fast in Cologne, and published in a
Vegetarian magazine, stating quite a new experience from fasting, diet and healing of
disease; in fact, of life itself and in enjoyment and prolongation. It had a sensational and
revolutionizing effect. It brought me letters of inquiry from all parts of the world, and in
Europe particularly, health seekers, reformers and medical men were soon divided into
opposers and enthusiastic followers. These writings brought on a scientific controversy
or fight over the new principles I had brought to light, that in Europe the two opposing
combinations were known as “Ehretists” and “Non-Ehretists”
The truth of the Ehretists was well described by a prominent editor and reformer as
follows: “He (Ehret) did not invent or originate fasting, or the use of fruit or improved
diet, for those are well known and were used long ago as good factors of Naturopathy,
but what he did do was to originate an entirely new system of combining them as a
systematic Healing method, on a basis of perfect Nutrition and Fasting”,
“My  mucus  theory—afterwards  a  proven  fact—as  the  fundamental  cause  of  all
diseases, was more and more recognized, and consequently my system of healing, too. It
has stood the test and brought what one writer has expressed as “enormous success”, and
today has a platform that: Natural Treatment and Diet is the Most Perfect and Successful
system  of  healing  known.  It  has  automatically  named  itself  “Nutro-Therapy”  and  its
resulting “cult” “Naturopathy”. For over ten years I wrote articles for health journals,
lectured in the large cities of Europe, discussing the merits of the system with medical
men  and  professionals,  and  treating  thousands  of  patients  at  my  “Fruit  and  Fasting
Sanitarium” and by correspondence, and without changing the fundamental principles,
but strengthening them by a better knowledge of their details and how to apply them for
best  results.  From  all  these  was  evolved  what  is  now  becoming  well  known  in  this
country—the  name, “Mucusless Diet”. I came to the United States just before World
War  I  to  visit  the  Panama  Exposition,  and  to  examine  the  fruits  raised  here,  and
particularly  of  California,  and  my  enforced  remaining  here  by  the  war  has  seemed
providential  in  finding  those  here  who  had  similar  advances,  discoveries  and
experiences,  and  we  are  now  advocating  and  bringing  to  public  knowledge  the  same
principles  that  were  so  successful  in  Europe,  in  relieving  suffering  humanity  and
preventing disease, and developing an improved race of people that will not know what
diseased conditions are, and bring about a better civilized humanity.
In editing Professor Ehret's life-work items, I am pleased to add that the discoveries
made here by Dr. Thomas Powell, which I assisted in developing and adding to, were
intuitively surmised by Professor Ehret (afterwards found to be proved by his results,
and later corroborated by reference to Chemist Hensel's scientific analysis of foods) are
that fruits and vegetables have elements which are superior to those in any other foods,
for producing vital energy, both in amount and quality. These elements or ingredients are
known as “organized carbon” and “grape sugar”. Their presence in sufficient quantities
refutes  the  now  current  idea  that  the  organic,  mineral  or  tissue  salts  are  the  energy
producing elements. They exist only in infinitesimal amounts in all foods, and parts of
them are drugs. Neither are the number of calories (“heat units” by calorimeter tests),
reasonable  basis  for  selecting  a  proper  diet.  My  over  forty  years  of  observation,
experiences and research have proven conclusively to me that fruits and vegetables have
all the tissue salts needed, and that the presence of actually well known ingredients in

sufficient quantity are the energy and life supporting ingredients which make them the
superior  of  all  other  foods,  when  the  debris  (mucus)  from  the  “mucus-rich”  foods  is
eliminated. Then the full beneficial effect of the “Mucusless Diet” can be enjoyed.
Prof. Arnold Ehret was undoubtedly one of the greatest healers of modern times—
Philosopher, Teacher and Health lecturer—he came to this country searching for further
knowledge plus a desire to share his remarkable healing discoveries with those willing to
accept.
This overwhelming desire to help his fellow-man—to learn the truth—together with a
willingness to admit he did not know it all, was his motivating force. He recognized the
necessity  for  united  effort  and  hoped  to  avoid  unpleasant  consequences  that  result
through petty jealousies. The valuable thoughts, deeds and words of wisdom, was his
heritage  he  left  to  us  when  he  passed  into  the  great  beyond.  The  magnitude  and
versatility of the healing art that Prof. Ehret chose as his field of endeavor, welcomed the
friendly cooperation of all Natural Healers and Drugless Practitioners.
More than any other thing, he wanted to give to the world the benefits of his now-
proven health discoveries—this BETTER HEALTH which he himself had achieved and
had  already  taught  to  thousands  at  this  Swiss  Sanitarium,  public  demonstrations,  and
through health magazine articles.
It was a constant source of personal gratification, to know that his health teachings
were increasingly gaining acceptance among both the laity and professional practitioners
as well—who unhesitatingly accepted fresh fruits and green leaf vegetables as the proper
food  for  mankind.  Even  the  personally  coined  descriptive  words  such  as
—“Mucus”—“Mucusless”—“Mucus-lean”—and  “Mucus-plus”  have  gradually  become
well known.
Arnold  Ehret  leaves  a  heritage  of  vast  worth  to  humanity—possibly  the  most
important message that mankind has received since thousands of years! Ehret's teaching
—vouchsafes  to  all  his  followers—HEALTH—which  is  more  valuable  than  worldly
wealth—joyous happiness in living—and a complete spiritual awakening! This humble
message of mine, will hopefully bring added fame to a long-to-be-remembered “Apostle
of Health”—Prof. Arnold Ehret.

General Introductory Principles