LESSON I.

Every disease, no matter what name it is known by Medical Science, is
Constipation
A clogging up of the entire pipe system of the human body. Any special symptom is
therefore merely an extraordinary local constipation by more accumulated mucus at this
particular  place.  Special  accumulation  points  are  the  tongue,  the  stomach  and
particularly the entire digestive tract. This last is the real and deeper cause of bowel
constipation. The average person has as much as ten pounds of uneliminated feces in the
bowels continually, poisoning the blood stream and the entire system. Think of it!
Every  sick  person  has  a  more  or  less  mucus-clogged  system,  such  mucus  being
derived from undigested and uneliminated, unnatural food substances, accumulated from
childhood  on.  Details  regarding  this  fact  may  be  learned  by  reading  my “Rational
Fasting and Regeneration Diet”.*
My “Mucus Theory”  and “Mucusless Diet Healing System”  stand  unshaken;  it  has
proven the most successful “Compensation-Action” so-called cure against every kind of
disease. By its systematic application thousands of declared-incurable patients could be
saved.
Th e Mucusless  Diet  consists  of  all  kinds  of  raw  and  cooked  fruits,  starchless
vegetables,  and  cooked  or  raw,  mostly  green-leaf  vegetables. The  Mucusless  Diet
Healing  System  is  a  combination  of  individually  advised  long  or  short  fasts,  with
progressively changing menus of non-Mucus-Forming Foods. This diet alone can heal
every case of “disease” without fasting, although such a cure requires longer time. The
System itself will be expounded in later lessons.
However, to learn how to apply the system, to understand how and why it works, it is
necessary to free your mind from Medical errors, partly taken over by Naturopathy. In
other words, I must teach you a new Physiology, free from Medical errors; a new method
of Diagnosis; a correction of the Fundamental errors of Metabolism, high Protein foods,
Blood circulation, Blood composition, and last, but not least, you must be taught.
What Vitality Really Is
To  Medical  Science  the  human  body  is  still  a  mystery,  especially  in  diseased
condition. Every new disease “discovered” by the doctors is a new mystery for them.
There  are  no  words  to  properly  express  how  far  from  the  truth  they  actually  are!
Naturopathy  uses  the  word Vitality  continually,  yet  neither  “Medical  Scientists”  nor
Naturopaths can tell what Vitality is.
Not only is it necessary to eradicate all of these errors from your brain, but the truth
must be shown you in such a new and simple light that you can grasp it at once. This
great  advantage  of  simplicity  and  clarity  is  one  of  the  fundamental  reasons  for  my
success.  Withal,  my  teachings  cover  the truth.  Incidentally,  whatever simple  reason
cannot grasp is humbug, however scientific it may sound.

You will learn how wrong and ignorant it is to believe that any special disease can be
healed by eating the right food, living upon “special menus” or undergoing long fasts, if
such  is  done  without  experience  and  without  system  and  special  advice  for  each
individual case.
“Fasting” has been known for hundreds of years as a “compensation” against every
disease, as Nature's only and infallible law, and the same applies to the Mucusless Diet;
as stated in Genesis (fruits and herbs, i.e., green leaves). But why has it never come into
general use and resultant universal success? Because it was never used systematically in
accordance with the condition of the patient. The average man has not the slightest idea
what the necessary eliminative process is; what time it requires; how and how often his
diet must be changed; what it means to cleanse the body of the terrible quantities of
waste he has accumulated in his body during his life.
Disease  is  an  effort  of  the  body  to  eliminate  waste,  mucus  and  toxemias,  and  this
system assists Nature in the most perfect and natural way Not the disease but the body is
to be healed; it must be cleansed, freed from waste and foreign matter, from mucus and
toxemias accumulated since childhood. You cannot buy health in a bottle, you cannot
heal  your  body,  that  is,  cleanse  your  system  in  a  few  days,  you  must  make
“compensation” for the wrong you have done your body all during your life.
My system is not a cure or a remedy; it is a regeneration, a thorough house-cleaning,
the acquisition of such clean and perfect health as you never knew before.
Remember: Your constitutional encumbrances throughout the entire system are the
source  of  every  disease;  the  greatest  and  most  harmful  source  of  lowered  vitality,
imperfect health, lack of strength and endurance and any and all imperfect conditions.
All have their source in the colon, never perfectly emptied since your birth. Nobody on
earth today has an ideally clean body and therefore perfectly clean blood. What Medical
Science calls normal health is in fact a pathological condition.
In Summa: The human mechanism is an elastic pipe system. The diet of civilization is
never entirely digested and the resultant waste eliminated. This entire pipe system is
slowly constipated, especially at the place of the symptom and the digestive tract. This is
the  foundation  of  every  disease.  To  loosen  this  waste,  eliminate  it  intelligently  and
thoroughly, and to control this elimination can only be done perfectly by the
MUCUSLESS-DIET
HEALING SYSTEM
*   “Rational Fasting”, by Arnold Ehret, Published by the Ehret Literature Publishing
Company, Inc. Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522-0024.

Latent, Acute and Chronic Diseases
No Longer a Mystery
 