LESSON VI.

As you now know what Vitality is and how simply animal life functions automatically
by air-pressure and air counter-pressure (on fish, etc., it acts exactly the same, only by
water instead of air), you may realize that medical physiology, the science of animal
functions  is  fundamentally  wrong,  based  on  the  following  errors,  which  must  be
corrected by a New Physiology:
1.   The Theory of Blood Circulation.
2.   Metabolism or Change of Matter.
3.   High Protein Foods.
4.   Blood Composition.
5.   Blood Building.
The Error of Blood Circulation
Medical physiology, pathological physiology, continues to find diseases, the cause of
disease,  with  the  microscope.  The  germ  theory  is  now  “fashionable”.  Scientists  will
never  find  the  truth  and  never  understand  what  disease  is  as  long  as  they  have  a
fundamentally wrong conception of blood circulation.
As I have already explained, the fact has been overlooked that the lungs are motoric
organs  of  circulation,  and  the  circulating  blood  drives  the  heart—the  same  as  the
regulating  valve  in  an  engine.  That  the  blood  stream  drives  the  heart and  not  the
opposite, can be seen thru the two following facts:
1.     As  soon  as  you  increase  air-pressure  by  increased  breathing  you  speed  the
circulation and therefore the number of heart beats.
2.      As  soon  as  you  take  into  the  circulation  a  stimulating  poison  (alcohol  for
example) you increase the speed of the heart. As soon as you take a nerve and
“muscle-band”  paralyzing  poison  (for  example,  digitalis)  you decrease  the
speed of the heart. The medical profession has this exact knowledge, but in spite
of  their  knowledge  the wrong conclusion that a mysterious power acts on the
heart muscle driving the blood circulation is arrived at.
Prominent engineers among my patients agreed with my concept after learning this
new  physiology,  saying  that  the  heart  would  make  a  model  valve  for  any  kind  of  an
engine.
How  can  it  be  logically  proven  that  the  heart  controls  the  circulation  if  thru  the
circulating blood you can control the heart?
Increased air-pressure thru exercise, climbing a hill or running, increases heart action;
for the speed of the valve, as in an engine, depends upon the pressure.
Thirty  years  ago  a  Swiss  expert  of  physiology,  although  a  layman,  demonstrated,
evidently  with  animal  experiments,  that  a  circulation  as  taught  by  physiology  and  as

originated by Prof. Wm. Harvey in London 400 years ago, does not exist at all. Of course
no  attention  was  given  by  medicine  to  his  demonstrations.  How  can  a  “science”  be
erroneous?
Metabolism
Metabolism, or the “science of change of matter”, is the most absurd and the most
dangerous doctrine-teaching ever imposed on mankind. It is the father of the wrong cell
theory  and  of  that  most  erroneous  albumen  theory,  which  latter  theory  will  kill  and
stamp out the entire civilized Western world if its following is not stopped. It will kill
you, too, some day, if you fail to accept the truth that a continual albumen replacement is
unnecessary, and that you cannot gain vitality, efficiency and health by protein as long as
your  human  “engine”  must  work against obstructions, which are in fact, the cause of
death of all mankind of the Western civilization.
The erroneous idea that the cells of the body are continually used up by the process of
life  in  their  essential  substance  of  protein  and  must  be  continually  replaced  by  high
protein foods, can be and are evidently refuted by my investigations, experiments and
observations on some hundreds of fasters. The facts are as follows, and you will again
see that it is just as I teach and as I have experienced. What Medicine calls and sees, as
Metabolism is the elimination of waste by the body as soon as the stomach is empty.
Medicine actually believes that you live from your own flesh substance as soon as you
are fasting. Even Dr. Kellogg believes that the vegetarian becomes a meat-eater when he
fasts, and Naturopathy has taken over more or less in principle these medical errors. One
believes that the human engine cannot run a minute without solid food, protein and fat,
and makes the erroneous conclusion that man dies and must die from starvation as soon
as all his fat and protein is used up during a fast. I found and have this to state:
Lean people can fast easier and longer than fat ones. The Hindu fakir, consisting of
skin  and  bones,  the  leanest  type  in  existence,  can  fast  the  longest  time,  and  without
suffering. Where is there any “using up of the body” in this instance? I further found that
the cleaner the body from waste (mucus), the easier and longer one can fast. Therefore, a
fast has to be prepared by an eliminating and laxative diet. My world record of watched
fasting of 49 days could be done under the conditions imposed only after using a strict
mucusless diet during a long period of time. In other words, I could stand this long fast,
and you can stand a fast much easier and much longer the more the body is free from fat
—which is partly decomposed, watery flesh—the more the body is free from mucus and
poisons, which are eliminated as soon as eating is stopped, entirely or partly. The human
body  does  not  expel,  burn  up  or  use  up  a  single  cell  that  is  in  vital  condition!  The
cleaner, the more free from obstructions, from waste, the body is, the easier and the
longer you can fast with water and air alone! The limit where real starvation sets in is
yet  unknown!  The  Catholic  Church  claims  tests  of  holy  people  who  fasted  during
decades. But the medical error even grows by teaching Metabolism, claiming that you
must replace cells (which are not used up as you can plainly see), with high protein food
from  a  cadaver, partly decomposed meat, and which has gone thru a most destructive
heat process of cooking! That fact is that you accumulate more or less of the wastes in
your system in the shape of mucus and its poisons as the slowly growing foundation of
your disease and the ultimate cause of your death. Human imagination is evidently not

sufficient to conceive the tremendous foolishness of this doctrine and its consequences,
unmindful that its teachings are actually said to kill the individual and to finally kill all
mankind!
Medicine—and the average man, of course—also believes that you are growing flesh
and increasing health if you daily increase your weight by “good eating”. If the colon of
a so-called “healthy” fat man is cleaned of his accumulated feces, even though he has
“regular” stools, he at once loses from 5 to 10 pounds of the weight called “health”.
Weight  of  feces,  figured  by  doctors  as  health!  Can  you  imagine  anything  more
erroneous, more wrong, more foolish, and  at  the  same  time,  more  dangerous  to  your
health and life? That is Medical “Science” of Metabolism.

The New Physiology (Continued)