LESSON III.

Why the Diagnosis?
Laymen and even some dietetic experts with the exception of myself, believe there is
no need for diagnosis. You may ask, since there is only one disease why the diagnosis? If
all  sickness  is  due  to  uncleanliness  from  uneliminated,  undigested  food,  mucus,  uric
acid, toxemias, drugs, etc., why diagnose? We shall now learn why fruit-diet and fasting
have  produced  such  doubtful  results,  thru  their  incorrect  use  and  misunderstanding,
caused thru the belief that general rules of this cure are suitable for everybody and for
every case. Nothing is further from the truth! No other cure requires so much individual
specialization and continual changing to meet the reaction of the patient. This is why
people  who  attempt  these  methods  of  cure  without  expert  knowledge  or  advice
frequently bring about serious results.
Promiscuous Fasting
McFadden, and many others, advise, for instance, fasting as applicable to all cases. I
learned  thru  thousands  of  cases  during  my  experience  that  nothing  requires  more
individual, different application than fasting and the mucus-less diet. Of two patients,
one may effect a complete recovery after a fast of two or three weeks, while the other
may  die  from  the  same  treatment!  That  is  why  an  individual  diagnosis  of  general
conditions and constitutional encumbrances is so necessary.
Method of Constitutional Diagnosis
My diagnosis determines the following points:
1.   The relative amount of encumbrance in the system.
2.   The predominant part, that is, whether more mucus or more poisons.
3.   If pus is present in the system, amount and kind of drugs used.
4.   If internal tissue or an organ is in a process of decomposition.
5.   How far vitality is lowered.
You will also learn thru experience and observations along these lines that the general
appearance,  especially  the  face  of  the  patient  will  indicate  more  or  less  the  internal
conditions.*
Medical Diagnosis
Medical diagnosis throws no real light on the subject, although doctors think it more
important than the actual cure. It is made up of a series of reports and symptoms and a
scheme of experiences from which thousands of diseases are named. Characteristic of
the meaningless medical diagnosis is the frequent statement of many patients that “the
doctors could not find out what I have”. The name of the disease does not concern us at
all. A man with gout, one with indigestion, or one with Bright's disease may start with
the same advice. Whether to fast, for instance, and how long, does not depend upon the
name of the disease, but upon the patient's condition and how far vitality is lowered.

Naturopathic Concepts
Naturopathy is an advance over medicine in teaching that all disease is constitutional.
Naturopathy does not explain sufficiently the source, nature and composition of “foreign
matters” as the fundamental one-ness of all disease.
Dr. Lahmann said: “Every disease is caused by carbonic acid and gas”. But he did not
learn  its  source  in  decayed,  uneliminated  food  substances-the  mucus  in  a  state  of
continuous fermentation.
Dr. Jaeger said: “Disease is a stench”. Nature gives a diagnosis thru bad odor, which
indicates how far the inside decomposition has progressed.
Dr. Haigh of England, the founder of the “Anti-uric acid diet”, bases his conception of
general diagnose on the assumption that the majority of diseases are caused thru uric
acid, certainly an important part of diseased matter besides mucus.
Naturopathy lays considerable stress and importance on symptomatical diagnosis in
spite of the acknowledgment that there is only one disease.
Uric Diagnosis
Medical doctors and many others consider this special kind of diagnosis as the most
important one, but it is fundamentally misunderstood. Beside the digestive tract, the uric
canal is the main avenue of elimination. As soon as any one decreases his eating, fasts a
little,  or  changes  over  to  the  natural  diet,  he  has  waste,  mucus,  poisons,  uric  acid,
phosphates, etc., in this urine, and an analysis of his urine is alarming. This likewise
happens  in  the  majority  of  cases  whenever  anyone  becomes  sick.  Everyone  becomes
alarmed  at  this  effort  of  the  body  to  eliminate  waste—which  is  in  truth  the  healing,
cleansing process.
Should sugar or albumen be found in the urine the case is called “very serious”, and
diagnosed “Diabetes”, or “Bright's disease”, respectively. Under medical treatment the
patient in the first named case, dies thru sugar-starvation, caused thru a lack of sugar and
sugar-formers  in  the  dietary.  In  the  latter  diagnosis  the  patient  dies  from  forced
“albumen replacement” resulting from over-feeding of foods rich in albumen.
Whatever  the  body  expels  is  waste,  decayed,  dead—and  simply  indicates  that  the
patient is in an advanced state of inside uncleanliness, already causing a decomposition
of inside organs—producing rapid decay of all food taken into the body. These cases,
like tuberculosis, must be treated very carefully and VERY SLOWLY.
How It Looks in the Human Colon
It is of utmost importance that thru our diagnosis we must learn as much as possible
the general appearance of the inside of the human body. Our diagnosis therefore consists
of finding out the degree of quantities of individual waste matter of the patient.
Experts in autopsy state they have found that from 60 to 70 per cent of the colons
examined have foreign matters such as worms and decades-old feces-stones. The inside
walls  of  the  over-intestines  are  encrusted  by  old,  hardened  feces  and  resemble  in
appearance the inside of a filthy stove-pipe.

I had fat patients that eliminated from their body as much as 50 to 60 pounds waste,
and  10  to  15  pounds  alone  from  the  colon,  mainly  consisting  of  foreign  matters,
especially  old,  hardened  feces.  The  average  so-called  “healthy”  man  of  today  carries
continually with him, since childhood, several pounds of never eliminated feces. One
“good stool” a day means nothing. A fat and sick man is in fact a living “cesspool”. A
distinct surprise to me was that a number of my patients in such condition had already
undertaken so-called “Nature cures”.
*   For further information refer to page 42, “The Magic Mirror”.

The Diagnosis (Continued)