Introduction

By FRED S.HIRSCH, D.N.S.
Professor  Arnold  Ehret,  Originator  and  Teacher  of  the  Mucusless-Diet  Healing
System, was born July 25, 1866. On October 9, 1922, while still in the very prime of life,
enjoying a superior state of health known to but few men of present day civilization, he
met with an unfortunate accident, suffering a basal fracture of the skull which caused
almost  instant  death.  It  was  an  unusually  wet,  foggy  night,  with  visibility  practically
“nil”!  The  “oil-soaked”,  streets  and  sidewalks  became  extremely  slippery,  when  wet!
The fatal accident occurred on a “side-walk-drive-in” to a public garage! He evidently
slipped on the “oil-soaked” driveway, and in falling backwards, he landed on the back of
his  head  with  sufficient  force  to  cause  a  “basal  fracture  of  the  skull”!  He  was
immediately taken to a “branch office” of the Los Angeles Receiving Hospital and the
medical doctor in charge pronounced him dead upon arrival. An autopsy was requested
and  performed  by  the  Los Angeles  County  Coroner's  office,  and  cause  of  death  was
verified by them as having resulted from a “basal fracture of the skull”. If further details
are  desired  write  the  Los  Angeles  County  Recorder's  Office,  Hall  of  Records,  Los
Angeles, California.
He was destined from early manhood to fulfill the humanitarian mission of physician.
Suffering from a sickness pronounced incurable by eminent physicians of that day, and
with a sentence of death staring him in the face, it only served to awaken the indomitable
spirit that was later proven to be the outstanding characteristic of this remarkable man,
and his resolution to cure himself resulted so successfully that he was practically forced
by unfortunate fellow sufferers to aid them to regain their health.
One might state that even by inheritance Professor Ehret should rightfully become a
physician,  for  his  father  was  a  veterinarian  and  so  successful  was  he  in  this  field  of
healing that neighbors often sought his aid for their personal ailments. His grandfather
was also a physician, and fate decreed that Arnold Ehret was to follow in their footsteps.
The vast knowledge of health subjects shown in the following lessons was gained by
him  through  actual  contact  with  thousands  of  sufferers  who  became  healed  at  his
Switzerland sanitarium, most of them from so-called incurable ailments. His clearness of
expression,  the  forceful,  logical  array  of  acts  in  his  easily  recognizable,  convincing
manner,  is  sufficient  proof  that  his  mind  was  not  obstructed  by  any  mechanical
disturbances. His work was always his ideal. No thoughts of any monetary consideration
were uppermost in his mind for his wants were exceptionally few. Here was a Master
actually  practicing  what  he  preached,  so  that  his  extremely  frugal  method  of  living
caused him no financial worry. Fearless in speech and writing and recognizing in Nature
his final Judge. Arnold Ehret moved among men, distinctly separate from the majority,
yet bearing only good will and love for his fellow man. To know him was to honor and
respect him—to become intimately acquainted was to love him.
The essence of his healing knowledge is contained in his “Mucusless Diet Healing
System”, and while condensed to a considerable degree the work is thorough in every
respect. The hitherto “veil of mystery” is lifted in the characteristically clear and concise
manner  of  Professor  Ehret!  Simplicity  is  the  keynote  of  all  of  his  teachings,  for  he

continually  reminded  his  students  that  “whatever  is  not  simple,  easy  to  understand,
cannot be the truth”! All disease is known to originate from one source, making the name
of  specific  ailments  unnecessary.  Recognizing  a  diseased  condition  and  knowing  the
proper method of eliminating the condition is by far more essential than a knowledge of
its scientific, technical name.
In  these  lessons  a  revolutionary,  entirely  new  scientific  physiology  is  given  to  the
world. For example, “our lungs and not the heart, as erroneously taught, is the pump”, is
proven by undeniable facts. The physical, mental and even spiritual phases of a natural
life  are  plainly  and  understandingly  explained  to  the  student.  Our  mind  and  mental
condition  influence  the  body,  just  as  the  body  influences  the  mind  and  a  clean,  pure
blood stream is therefore absolutely essential for clean, pure thoughts.
When sick, it is difficult for one to pray the prayer of faith. Self sympathy leads the
sick one to mentally question the fairness of a divine omnipotence for being singled out
among  thousands  of  other  sinners,  some  of  whom  are  personally  known  to  be  much
greater “violators of man-made laws” recognized by the church as sins and yet permitted
to go unpunished by an avenging God. The sins against Nature are inexcusable and the
inevitable law of compensation must be met by everyone. No pleading of “ignorance” is
acceptable  to  Nature,  a  discontinuance  of  the  wrong  habits  is  the  only  method  of
expiation!  It  is  extremely  difficult  to  concentrate  when  suffering  pain,  hence  the
necessity for re-educating your mind and brain while enjoying good health, rather than
waiting  until  you  become  ill. You  must  learn  how  to  operate  the  law  of  good  health
constructively so that you may be prepared to face the unexpected foe, prepared for any
emergency.
We need health and must have it in order to make the most of life here and now. The
Bible tells us “according to your faith be it unto you”, but unfortunately when it comes to
controlling his own health, man has made very little progress for the past 5000 years. He
studiously learns how to feed the lower animals, but does not know how to feed himself!
Ehret's philosophy proves most satisfactory to the thinking mind, for the day of mere
theory in science is on the wane. Old worn-out dogmas and beliefs are rapidly giving
way to demonstrable facts. Bias, prejudice and erratic conclusions have always stood in
the way of progress and what the world most needs today is a sound, safe, sane and
simple working knowledge of the laws of life. The results of the last few years in world
affairs  clearly  established  in  fact  that  mere  faith,  dogmatic  assertions  and  scientific
hypotheses miserably failed to solve life's problems.
The power to heal is invested in the patient and as long as there is a single spark of life
there is always hope. To hold a fear or doubt that you cannot be well, healthy, happy and
successful is un-natural and therefore a hindrance to attaining you goal and a suppression
of your desire. It will be noted that Professor Ehret has used every effort to induce the
students to do their own thinking for he well recognizes the fact that in the final analysis
we must do our own curing. Only the knowledge of how to accomplish this much desired
condition of superb health, can be taught. The main trouble with the average individuals
of  present-day  civilization  is  that  they  refuse  to  think.  They  prefer  “mob  thinking”.
Because everybody else does it, it must be right. The real facts prove the opposite to be
the case.

The genuine principles of healing are simple and few, in fact, so simple that the so-
called scientific mind is prone to overlook the vital points of the application of the law.
Youth, strength and happiness need not belong to the young in years alone, for the young
in desire and creative energy may also have these much-to-be-desired possessions. Never
permit yourself to lose sight of the fact that while there is a spark of life in your bodies it
can be formed into an intense flame. For strength is born of desire.
Professor Ehret recognizes a number of causes that produce disease besides “mucus”
although this word is used in the title. Non-mucus-forming foods are clearly defined, and
the  student  can  be  guided  accordingly.  There  are  instances,  in  which  mucus-forming
foods may be permitted in the transition diet, in fact, where they are actually desired for
reasons that are enumerated in the lessons. The same food that constructs and generates,
will, if incorrectly used, destroy and degenerate, and likewise the very food that will
normally sustain life, might in the sick and degenerate body, if used wrongly or even
untimely, destroy life.
When your life is pulsating with joyous health, then you are living the super-life, the
birthright of every human being; the joy of living that Professor Arnold Ehret so ardently
desired might once more become the possession of all mankind.
