LESSON II.

The first lesson has now given you an insight as to what disease actually is. In addition
to mucus and its toxemias in the system, there are other foreign matters such as uric
acid, toxins, etc., and especially drugs if ever used. I learned thru the years of practical
experience that drugs are NEVER eliminated as is the waste from foods—but are stored
up in the body for decades. Hundreds of cases have come under my observation where
drugs taken 10, 20, 30 and even 40 years were expelled together with mucus thru this
perfect  healing  system. This  is  a  fact  of  basic  importance—especially  for  the
Practitioner. When these chemical poisons after being dissolved are taken back into the
circulation for elimination thru the kidneys—the nerves and heart are affected—causing
extreme  nervousness,  dizziness  and  excessive  heart-beats,  as  well  as  other  strange
sensations.  The  uninformed  stands  before  a  mystery  and  probably  calls  the  family
doctor,  who  now  diagnoses  the  condition  as  “heart-disease”  and  blames  the  “lack  of
food” instead of the drugs he prescribed 10 years ago.
The average “normal” man, considered healthy, has a chronic, stored-up accumulation
of waste food—poisons and drugs.
This Is His Latent Disease
When these latent disease matters are occasionally stirred up, for instance by a cold,
he  expels  great  quantities  of  mucus,  and  feels  unhappy  instead  of  enjoying  Nature's
cleaning process. If the quantity of loosened mucus is great enough to shock the entire
system, more of less, but still not dangerous, it may be diagnosed as Influenza. If the
eliminating work of Nature digs deeper into the system, especially into that important
organ, the lungs, so much mucus and poisons are loosened at once that the circulation
has  to  work  under  great  friction,  similar  to  a  dirty  machine—or,  for  example  an
automobile running with its brakes set. The friction produces abnormal heat, which is
called fever, and the doctors call it Pneumonia, which is really a “feverish” effort on
Nature's part to free the MOST VITAL organ from its waste. If the kidneys are called
upon  to  eliminate  this  loosened  mucus,  thereby  shocking  this  organ,  it  is  called
Nephritis, etcetera, etcetera.
In other words, whenever Nature endeavors to save a human life thru her efforts to
eliminate “feverishly”, mucus and its toxic products, it is called acute disease.
Acute Disease
The Medical profession has over 4000 names for different ailments. The derivation of
the particular or special name of the disease is made up according to the respective local
place of elimination; or pertains to the congested point where the blood stream finds it
difficult  of  passage  and  causes  pain—such  as  pains  in  the  joints,  as  in  cases  of
rheumatism, for example.

For ages, this well-meaning effort and intended self-healing work of Nature has been
misunderstood and suppressed thru the agency of drugs, and the continuance of eating,
despite  the  warning  danger  signals  of  pain  and  loss  of  appetite.  Notwithstanding  the
“help” of the doctors—help, in fact, often injurious and dangerous to the patient's life –
his  vitality  and  especially  his  eliminating  abilities  are  lowered,  and  Nature  proceeds
slowly. Under this handicap Nature cannot work, as efficiently, requiring more time and
the  case  is  then  called  “chronic”.  The  word  chronic  is  derived  from  the  Greek  word
“chronos”, meaning time. You will be taught in Supplement to Diagnosis—(Lesson III
and IV) more about this “mystery”.

The Diagnosis