LESSON IX.

Blood Building
The problem of blood building in the human body involves all problems of health and
disease.  In  other  words  your  health  and  disease  depend  almost  entirely  on  your  diet;
whether  you  eat  right  or  wrong  foods,  which  foods  harm  you,  thereby  building,
producing disease, and which foods heal and keep your body in ideal condition, which
ones build natural, good blood—and which ones build wrong, bad, acid, diseased blood.
These questions and their correct answers are the fundamentals of dietetics and of my
“Mucusless  Diet  Healing  System”.  In  this  lesson  I  teach  only  the  principal  truth  in
general. All particulars and details are covered in the entire course.
In fact, my diet of healing in its main and essential part, consists of building a new
perfect blood with continual “supply” from natural foods with vital elements thru which
the blood stream is enabled to dissolve and eliminate all waste, all mucus, all poisons
and all drugs ever taken during a lifetime, wherever and for as long a time as they may
have been “stored up” as latent disease in the body.
What  the  “official”  physiology  of  nourishment  teaches  for  best  blood  building  is
doubly wrong. First, principally as a problem of physiological chemistry. Second, from
the truth of Nature.
Here  again  I  must  quote  that  great  authority  of  physiological  chemistry,  Prof.  von
Bunge, who personally told me that he does not endorse official, medical teaching. Says
von Bunge: “Life is based on transformation of substances, thru which process power,
efficiency,  becomes  free,  just  as  it  takes  place  in  every  chemical  process  of
transformation from one chemical entity of atoms and molecules into another one.”
The  authors  that  started  physiological  science  lacked,  principally,  knowledge  in
chemistry due to a more humanistic education rather than in science of Nature. On the
other hand, inorganic chemistry was not sufficiently developed at this time.
The misleading idea was again protein. They reasoned as follows: Muscles, tissues,
the  entire  body's  essential  substance  is  protein;  therefore  this  substance  must  be
introduced into the blood in order to build, to grow. In other words, you must eat muscles
to build muscles, you must eat protein to build protein, you must eat fat to build fat, and
in the case of a nursing mother, she must drink milk to make milk!
As they believed and still believe in Metabolism, and the necessity of replacing every
day  the  used-up  cells,  these  principles  are  followed  in  the  diet  of  the  average  mixed
eater.
To take inorganic iron, lime, etc., in an endeavor to replace the same substance in the
human body is a similar error.
The  cow  builds  flesh,  tissues,  bones,  hair,  milk,  efficiency,  heat,  all  from  grass
exclusively. Feeding milk to a cow to increase milk production would be classed as the
height of folly, and yet man does this very thing with himself!

Today, every substance of the human body is chemically analyzed and doctors dream
of perfecting chemically concentrated food substances in the future, making it possible
for you to carry your meals in your vest pocket in sufficient quantities to last couple of
days. That will never happen, for the human body does not assimilate a single atom of
any food substance that is not derived from the vegetable or fruit kingdom.
All  manufactured  food  mixtures,  when  too  concentrated—either  of  the  animal  or
vegetable kingdom—do not build blood but stimulate only.
Animal  foods  cannot  build  good  blood;  in  fact,  do  not  build  human  blood  at  all,
because of the biological fact that man is by nature a fruit eater. Look at the juice of a
ripe blackberry, black cherry or black grape. Doesn't it almost resemble your blood? Can
any reasonable man prove that half decayed “muscle tissues” build better blood?
Just as soon as the animal is killed the flesh is more or less in decomposition. Then
they are put thru the destructive process of cooking. No meat-eating animal can remain
healthy on cooked meat; they must eat it fresh and raw—blood, bones and all.
Most complete details about the right and natural foods will be taught later, and you
will learn the truth. I will only mention at this time one important fact which is essential
in  my  dietetical  teaching,  and  by  which  I  differ  from  all  others,  even  from  other
dietetical experts who still believe in concentrated albumen, concentrated mineral salts,
etc., being required for good blood building.
Albumen is not the most important substance for our blood, nor is it mineral salts
alone which build perfect blood. The cardinal standard substance for man's blood is the
highest developed form of carbon hydrate, chemically called sugar-stuff, grape or fruit
sugar  as  contained  more  or  less  in  all  ripe  fruits,  and  in  the  next  lower  state  in
vegetables. The newer advanced science teaches that even the small amount of protein
that is necessary is developed from grape sugar in the animal and human body. All cereal
and vegetable eating animals transform these foods, first into grape sugar, and them as a
matter of fact the body in its entirety.
But the essential point of disagreement regarding this particular problem is not in the
food,  blood-building  problem.  Whoever  does  not  know  disease—latent,  acute  and
chronic, as taught in Lesson 5, will never believe in the truth of human nourishment.
As you now know thru past lessons, just as soon as the blood is improved thru fruits,
the average man starts at once the elimination of obstructions—feels better for awhile,
but  when  more  and  more  waste  is  dissolved  and  with  the  resultant  next  shock  of
obstruction in the circulation, all faith is lost, and he, the doctor and all others blame the
lack of “efficiency” food. He thinks, and everyone suggests, that he needs “regular food”,
which when eaten stimulates him for awhile and causes him to believe that it must be the
meat and eggs that build good blood.
In  other  words,  the  problem  of  blood  building  thru  the  right  and  proper  food,  the
dietetical problem in its entirety will not be solved and the truth will not be accepted nor
believed and practiced by those who have not learned what happens, and just what it
means to heal by the new and real blood building foods.
This is the deeper cause why doctors believe in and recommend destructive foods, and

why the average man keeps them up and increases them continually, for he does not
possess the slightest idea of what disease is, and how he daily pollutes his blood.

Critique of All Other Healing Systems
and Unbiased, Unprejudiced Reviews