LESSON VIII.

Blood Composition
The logical consequence of the first three errors of the Old Physiology is the problem
of  composition  of  human  blood,  not  only  as  it  should  be  but  as  a  fact  of  “scientific
examination”, the error is so great that it borders on insanity.
The  problem  is  this:  Are  the  white  corpuscles  living  cells  of  vital  importance  to
protect and maintain life, to destroy germs of disease, and to immunize the body against
fever, infection, etc., as the standard doctrines of physiology and pathology teach?
Or are they just the opposite—waste, decayed, undigested unusable food substances,
mucus or pathogen, as Dr. Thos. Powell calls them? Indigestible by the human body,
unnatural and therefore not assimilated at all? Are they, in fact, the waste from high
protein and starchy foods which the average mixed eater of western civilization stuffs in
his stomach three times a day? What I call “mucus” as the foundational cause of all
disease?
Pathology  proves  that  itself,  stating  that  the  white  corpuscles  are  increased  during
disease, and physiology says they increase during digestion in the healthy body, and that
they are derived from high protein foods.
This teaching is absolutely correct, and the logical consequence of the error of high
protein foods.
Medical “science” sees and must see it as normal conditions of health, and that the
non-sick must have these white blood corpuscles in his circulation because everybody
has them. There is no man in existence in the Western civilization whose body has not
been continually stuffed since childhood with cow milk, meat and eggs, potatoes and
cereal products. No man today without mucus!
In my first published article I promulgated the gigantic idea that the white race is an
unnatural, a sick, a pathological one. First, the colored skin pigment is lacking, due to a
lack of coloring mineral salts; second, the blood is continually over-filled by white blood
corpuscles, mucus, waste with white color; therefore the white appearance of the entire
body.
The skin pores of the white man are constipated by white, dry mucus; his entire tissue
system is filled up and filled out with it. No wonder that he looks white and pale and
anemic.  Everybody  knows  that  an  extreme  case  of  paleness  is  a  “bad  sign”.  When  I
appeared with my friend in a public air-bath, after having lived for several months on a
mucusless  diet  with  sun  baths,  we  looked  like  Indians,  and  people  believed  that  we
belonged to another race. This condition was doubtless due to the great amount of red
blood corpuscles and the great lack of white blood corpuscles. I can notice a trace of pale
in my complexion the morning after eating one piece of bread.
This is not the place to bring up all the arguments against this terrible error about the
nature and “function” of the white blood corpuscles believed erroneously by medical

“science”. Anyone  desiring  a  real  scientific  proof  regarding  this  may  read  Dr.  Thos.
Powell “Fundamentals and Requirements of Health and Disease”, published 1909, a few
years after my “mucus theory” was published in Europe, and later translated into English
in 1913 as “Rational Fasting and Regeneration Diet”, neither of us knowing anything
regarding each other's publication. Dr. Powell teaches in principle the same as I so far as
the  causes  of  all  diseases,  the  white  corpuscles  and  all  these  medical  errors  are
concerned. The only difference being that he calls “Pathogen” what I call “Mucus”.
In the method of elimination and diet, however, I differ principally and entirely from
him; but even in the composition of the red blood corpuscles, the blood plasma at all, the
blood serum and the so-called hemoglobin, medical “science” lacks perfection.
The two most important facts for us to know are these:
First—The much greater importance and vital necessity of iron in the human blood.
Second—The presence of sugar-stuff in the blood. That great expert of physiological
chemistry  and  mineral  salt  theory  founder,  Hensel,  says  in  his  book  “Life”:  “Iron  is
chemically  veiled  in  our  blood.”  Doctors  could  not  find  it  through  their  lack  of
knowledge in chemistry. On page 36 of the same book he says: “In our blood albumen is
a  combination  of  sugar-stuff  and  iron  oxide,  but  not  to  be  found  or  recognized
(discovered) in such a way that neither the sugar nor the iron can be found by ordinary
chemical tests. The blood albumen must be burned first to make the test perfect.”
I presume that the truth and importance is this: The red color of blood is the most
characteristic quality of this “quite special sap” and is due to iron-oxide, rust! Therefore,
it is self-evident how important iron is in the blood. Further, the sugar-stuff is of high
importance besides its nourishing quality, as it is an essential part in the perfect blood
hemoglobin, which if in a perfect state has to become thick, like gelatine, as soon as it
comes in contact with the atmospheric air for the purpose of closing a wound. Read in
my  book  “Rational  Fasting”  my  test  of  a  non-bleeding,  immediate  healing  wound
without secretion of pus and mucus, without pain and inflammation.
One truth regarding the conditions of the human blood found out by doctors is that
acidity is a sign of disease. It is no small wonder that this readily happens with the mixed
eater, when he fills the stomach daily with meat, starch, sweets, fruits, etc., all at the
same time.
Make a personal test if you are not fully convinced. Eat a regular dinner, and one hour
after eating get it out of your stomach, and you will have a sour fermenting mixture of a
terrible odor, reminding you of the garbage pail, and which when fed to hogs causes even
these animals to slowly become sick.
Or if you do not care to be so heroic try the following experiment: Next time you sit
down to your Sunday dinner have the menu served for an imaginary guest. Empty his
portion in a cooking vessel, using the same quantities as you are eating and drinking
yourself. Stir thoroughly. Then cook on an oven at blood heat for not less the 30 minutes.
Place cover on vessel and leave overnight. When you remove cover in the morning a
distinct surprise will await you.

The New Physiology (Continued)