LESSON VII.

High Protein Foods
When the movement for Naturopathy and a meatless diet began in the last century, the
men  of  Medical  Science  were  endeavoring  to  prove  by  mathematical  figures  that
physical and mental efficiency have to be kept up thru daily replacement of protein with
a certain quantity for the average man. In other words, it became the vogue—it became a
mania, to suggest and to do exactly the opposite of Nature's laws whenever a person felt
weak, tired rapidly, became exhausted or sick in any way.
You now know thru Lesson 5 the source of Vitality and Efficiency and you now know
that without food at all, especially protein, the strength of a sick body can be increased.
High protein foods act as stimulation for a certain time, because they decompose at
once in the human body into poison. It is a commonly known fact that any kind of animal
substances  becomes  very  poisonous  as  soon  as  they  enter  an  oxidation  with  air,
especially at a higher temperature as exists in the human body.
The learned have gone so far as to prove that man belongs biologically in the class of
meat-eating  animals,  while  the  descendant  theory  proves  that  he  belongs  to  the  ape
family, who are exclusively fruit-eaters. You can see how ridiculous—contradictory—
so-called “science” is.
The  fundamental  fact  and  truth  of  why  the  grown-up  man  does  not  need  so  much
protein  as  the  old  physiology  claims,  is  shown  in  the  combination  of  mother's  milk,
which  does  not  contain  over  2  ½  to  3%  protein,  and  Nature  builds  up  with  that  the
foundation of a new body.
But the error goes further than that in their endeavor to replace something that is not
destroyed, not used up, not “consumed” at all—as you learned in the previous lesson
about  the  medical  error  of  Metabolism.  The  old  physiology  has  a  principally  wrong
conception of change of matter, because these “experts”, the founders of such a type of
science lacked knowledge of chemistry at all, and organic chemistry especially. Life is
based on change of matter in the meaning of physiological chemical transformation, but
never on the absurd idea that you must eat protein to build protein, to grow protein of
muscles and tissue. Most certainly not; for instance, is it necessary that a cow must drink
milk to produce milk! A prominent expert of physiological chemistry, Dr. von Bunge,
Professor  of  Physiological  Chemistry  at  the  University  of  Basel,  Switzerland,  whose
books  are  not  endorsing  the  average  standard  of  medical  teachings,  says  that  life,
vitality,  is  based  on  transformation  of  substances  (foods)  thru  which  power,  heat,
electricity becomes free and acts as efficiency in the animal body.
You will learn in the lesson about blood-building that a certain change of matter takes
place in the human body, and how protein is produced through transformation from other
food substances. This change of matter takes place not by a replacement of old cells by
new ones, but the mineral substances are the building stones of animal and vegetable
life, and the replacement is of much smaller quantities than as now taught.

The reason a “one-sided” meat-eater can live a relatively longer, certain time than the
vegetarian “starch-eater” is easy to understand after having learned Lesson 5. The first
one produces less solid obstructions by smaller quantities of meat-foods than the starch
“over-eater”  but  his  later  diseases  are  more  dangerous  because  he  accumulates  more
poisons, pus and uric acid.
If you know the truth about human nourishment—and you are going to learn it later—
you will be amused to note how the physiologists grope in darkness—how they made up
a standard quantity of necessary albumen for the average man, which standard, by the
way, is slowly getting smaller. They, and even advanced “diet experts”, estimate without
knowing the great unknown, i.e., the waste in the human body. For thousands of previous
years man has lived healthier without food value formulas and I doubt very much if a
single one of these physiologists ever gave his “chef” a suggestion of food values.
The entire proposition is a farce, masquerading as a so-called science. A few, like
Professor  Chittenden,  found  thru  experimenting  that  energy  and  endurance  increased
with  less  food—especially  less  protein.  Professor  Hindede  proved  that  albumen  need
hardly  be  considered,  and  Fletcher  outdid  them  all.  He  lived  on  one  sandwich  a  day
curing his so-called “incurable” disease and developed a tremendous endurance.
After I had overcome all fear as to fatal consequences that would befall me if I failed
to  adhere  strictly  to  “scientific  protein”  necessities,  I  found,  experienced  and
demonstrated the hitherto unknown and unbelievable fact that in the clean, mucus-free
and poison-free body these foods, poorest in protein—fruits—develop the highest energy
and an unbelievable endurance.
If nitrogen, the essential part of protein, is an important factor to keep the human
machine running, if vitality depends at all from nitrogen, then it seems to me that under
these ideal conditions nitrogen is assimilated from the air.
Food from the Infinite! “P” (power) as a source of nourishment! What tremendous
possibilities! I suggest that you read Lesson 5 over again, and you will realize these two
facts:
1.   The truth about human nourishment is still a “book with seven seals” to all
mankind, all so-called diet experts and scientific experts included.
2.   The error of high protein foods as a necessity of health, taught and suggested by
medical doctrines to mankind is in its consequences and in its effect just the
opposite of what it should be, it is one of the main and general causes of all
disease; it is the most tragical phenomena of western degeneration. It produced
at  the  same  time  the  most  dangerous,  most  destructive  habit  of  gluttony;  it
produced the greatest madness ever imposed on mankind, that is, to endeavor to
heal  a  disease  by  eating  more,  and especially  more  high  protein  foods.  It  is
beyond  possibility  to  express  in  words  what  the  error  of  high  protein  foods
means. Let me remind you that Medicine claims as the father of Medicine that
great  dietitian  Hippocrates,  who  said:  “The  more  you  feed  a  sick  person  the
more  you  harm  him”;  also:  “Your  food  shall  be  your  remedies  and  your
remedies your food”.
When  we  allow  the  body  to  become  clogged  with  mucus,  and  other  foreign

obstructions such as calcium, phosphates and similar waste materials, we may expect to
have high blood pressure overburdening the heart in its efforts to keep the blood stream
circulating properly.

The New Physiology (Continued)