LESSON XV.

In the preceding lessons you were taught the foods which are best, as well as those
which are bad, and which are the worst ones. You know the exact reason why and also
what is going on in the system—what happens with good foods as well as with bad ones
in the human body. You have learned that even the best foods which have the highest,
most vigorous healing properties can become harmful, even dangerous in the beginning,
if not carefully used; that they become mixed with the filthy mucus and poisons which
they loosen up in the body, and thereby become poisoned, entering the blood stream in
this poisoned condition.
Everything  is  perfectly  performed  by  Nature  thru  evolutional,  progressive  changes,
developments and accomplishments and not by catastrophes. Nothing is more incorrect
than the mistaken idea that a decades old chronic disease can be healed thru a very long
fast, or a radically extended strict fruit diet. “Nature's mills grind slow but sure.”
My experience of over twenty years, covering for the most part the extremely severe
cases  of  all  kinds  of  diseases,  has  proven  that  a  carefully  selected  and  progressively
changed TRANSITION DIET is the best and surest way for every patient to start a cure,
especially for the average mixed eater. As long as wrong foods (foods of civilization) are
partly  used,  I  call  it  a  MUCUS-LEAN  DIET.  Transition  means  the  slow  change  from
disease-producing foods to disease-healing foods, which later I call the MUCUSLESS DIET.
The  speed  of  elimination  depends  upon  quantities  and  qualities  of  food  and  can
therefore be controlled and regulated according to the condition of the patient. The worst
and by far the most unhealthy habit is the HEAVY BREAKFAST. No solid food should be
eaten in the early morning at all if you desire to secure the best results. It is permissible
to take the drink that you are accustomed to, but nothing else. If you find this difficult to
do in the beginning you may drink again later on so that your lunch is taken in the empty
stomach. This is so very important that a number of light diseases can be cured by the
so-called “No BREAKFAST PLAN” alone. (This subject is more fully covered in Fasting
Lessons 18, 19, 20, 21.)
It is best that no more than two meals a day be eaten, even though the quantity you eat
is as much as if three or even four meals were eaten. Later, when the stomach is cleaner,
a  small  dish  of  fresh  fruits  when  in  season  may  be  eaten  for  breakfast  if  desired.  If
possible, the first meal, lunch, should be eaten between ten and eleven in the morning,
and supper not sooner than five or six in the afternoon. Another very important rule,
when eating for health, is SIMPLICITY; in other words do not mix too many kinds of food
at one meal. Count the different number of items in the average meal of today and the
total will startle you.
NEVER DRINK DURING A MEAL. If accustomed to tea or coffee, wait a short while
after you have eaten before drinking. Soups should be avoided with meals, as the more
liquid  taken  the  more  difficult  for  proper  digestion.  If  a  warm  drink  is  desired,  for
instance, as a breakfast drink during the winter time, make a broth by cooking for a long
time different kinds of vegetables, such as spinach, onions, carrots, cabbages, etc., and

DRINK THE JUICE ONLY.
Menus for the First Two Weeks
LUNCH: A combination salad, consisting of raw grated carrots or coleslaw or both, half
and half, and two or three spoonfuls of a stewed or canned vegetable, such as green peas,
string beans or spinach. Add to this one of the following items (whatever is in season):
cucumbers, tomatoes, green onions, lettuce or other green leaf vegetables, celery, etc.,
but only a sufficient quantity for a flavoring.
You may make an oil dressing according to your taste if desired, using lemon juice
instead of vinegar—for flavoring purposes only. The rest of the meal should consist of
one baked or stewed vegetable such as cauliflower, beets, parsnips, turnips, squash, etc.
If you still feel as though you were hungry you may eat a small sized baked potato or one
slice  of  toasted  bran  or  whole  wheat  bread.  Fats  of  any  kind,  including  the  ordinary
butter, are unnatural and therefore should not be eaten. However, should you crave fats it
is best to use peanut butter or some other nut butter on your bread. During the winter
months canned vegetables may be used when green vegetables are not available. Drink
the juice separately in the morning and mix the green or string beans or spinach, etc.,
with the salad stock as described above of coleslaw or raw carrots. The object of this
menu is to supply the “broom” to provide mean for mechanically cleansing the digestive
tract by quantities of raw, baked and stewed starchless vegetables. This may be called
“Ehret's Standard Combination Salad”, the “intestinal broom” spoken of so frequently,
and  so  necessary  for  properly  eliminating  the  store  up  poisons  now  being  loosened
during the body's house-cleaning.
SUPPER: Mix (half and half) a stewed fruit such as apple sauce, stewed dried apricots,
stewed  dried  peaches,  or  stewed  prunes  with  cottage  cheese  or  with  some  very  ripe
bananas, mashed, sweetened with brown sugar or honey to taste.
The bananas would be for a less “mucused” or less acid stomach.
Menus for the Second Two Weeks
LUNCH: First a baked apple, apple sauce or other stewed dried fruit. After ten or fifteen
minutes a combination salad as suggested in first menu, and bran or whole wheat bread
toasted  if  still  hungry.  Cow  butter  should  be  gradually  avoided  and  replaced  by  a
vegetable or nut butter during the transition. By allowing the cooked vegetables to soak
on the salad for 10 to 15 minutes it serves the purpose of a dressing.
SUPPER: A baked or stewed vegetable as suggested in the first menu, followed with a
vegetable salad made of lettuce and cucumber or raw celery or a little coleslaw.
Menus for the Third Two Weeks
LUNCH: During the summer this should be an exclusive fruit meal-one kind only. In
winter a sweet dried fruit, for example, prunes, figs, raisins or dates eaten with apples or
oranges  or  the  dried  fruits  can  be  chewed  together  with  a  very  few  nuts,  and  then
followed by the fresh fruits. If in the beginning this fails to satisfy, wait for ten or fifteen
minutes and then eat a few leaves of lettuce or a cold vegetable either cooked or raw, but
just a small quantity.

SUPPER: A  combination  salad  as  suggested  in  the  first  menu,  followed  by  a  baked
vegetable.
Menus for the Fourth Two Weeks
LUNCH: Fruits as in previous menus.
SUPPER: First eat fruits, either baked or stewed, or fresh, followed a little later by a
cold cooked vegetable or better still a vegetable salad.
If you find that you are losing weight too rapidly, the elimination should be slowed
down  by  eating  bread  or  potatoes  after  the  vegetables.  Should  you  feel  an  intense
craving, in the beginning, for meat—a great desire returning which you cannot resist,
then eat vegetables only on that day, and NO FRUITS.
A Dissolved Mystery
The reason doctors and even Naturopaths in general, as well as the layman, do not
believe in FRUIT diet or MUCUSLESS diet, is simply this: Whoever experiments without
experience with this diet of healing, whether sick or well, loses his faith immediately, as
soon as he has a crisis, becomes what he believes to be “seriously ill”, that is to say, a
day on which a great amount of dissolved waste, debris, mucus and other poisons are
taken back into the circulation, a day of great elimination. This produces at the same
time a strong, almost irresistible craving for wrong foods and, strange at is may seem,
the patient most strongly craves for the wrong food, which was once his favorite. This is
explained by the fact that Nature is eliminating thru the circulation the waste of these
foods, and it is when they are in the circulation the craving and desire is naturally enough
produced.
This then is why it is of extreme importance that every meal of a diet of healing and
cleansing must leave the body as soon as possible. Being mixed with the loosened and
dissolved poisons they cause these “uncomfortable” conditions—a fact that has never
before been perfectly understood or explained.
Certain foods prove more laxative under certain conditions. Therefore, eat the foods
that you have personally found to be the most laxative in your own body. If you do not
experience  a  regular  bowel  movement  before  retiring,  always  help  with  an  enema,  a
laxative or both. A natural laxative helps, which you will undoubtedly find very efficient,
is eating a few dried prunes before the other fruits are taken.
A very good aid to elimination which can be used during the transition diet period,
until the bowels are cleansed from the old sticky waste, and until such time as the bowels
act freely from the new diet is “INNERCLEAN”,* a harmless herb vegetable compound,
perfected by myself, and the most efficient intestinal broom and bowel regulator known.
*   Information on Innerclean Herbal Laxative can be found at
www.atlastnaturals.com

Transition Diet (Continued)