LESSON X.

The methods of healing are numberless. Outside of a great domination of superstition
in this field, the serious methods can be divided into two principally different classes:
1. Medicine; 2. Drugless Healing.
The history of medicine shows that, especially in the past, drugs and other mysterious
“inventions”  were  taken  from  “quacks”.  A  great  number  of  “medicines”,  “standard
remedies”,  (for  example,  mercury)  were  first  introduced  by  “quacks”.  The  modern
serums, etc., are no better regardless of their being “scientifically” prepared.
As we now know exactly what disease is, we may understand a fact medicine cannot
explain, and that is WHY symptoms of disease can be suppressed by drugs and serums to
a certain limit. The “results” are known only thru experiences, but medicine does not
know why these results—“special effects”—happen.
This  is  the  secret:  If  the  body  of  any  sick  man  endeavors  to  eliminate  poisons
manifested by any kind of symptoms and a new and dangerous poison is introduced into
the circulation, the elimination thru the symptoms is more or less stopped because the
body instinctively sets to work to neutralize these poisons as far as it is possible. The
symptoms return just as soon as the life is saved, and the same procedure is repeated
until the patient dies or—if intelligent enough—casts medicine aside in time and seeks
to save himself by;
Drugless Healing
The methods of Drugless Healing are also very numerous, and they can be divided into
three parts;
1.   Physical Treatments.
2.   Mental Treatments.
3.   Dietetical Treatments.
Physical Treatments
In  general,  all  physical  treatment  have  a  tendency  to  loosen  local  constitutional
encumbrances thru various kinds of vibrations and thermal differences. The Kneipp cure,
for instance, is in fact an application of artificial colds which stimulates the circulation
and thru that, the elimination.
Exercise  (calisthenics),  breathing  exercises,  massage,  osteopathy,  mechano-therapy,
etc., perform in principle, the same. Chiropractic, however, claims a special “scheme”.
The subluxation is removed, but Chiropractics, similarly to Drugs, may give immediate
successful relief from painful symptoms, but as a matter of fact they return sooner or
later if the adjustments are discontinued, and wrong method of living is persisted in. The
cause  of  subluxation  is an accumulation of foreign matters  between  the  bones  of  the
spine, and we know that they have their source thru wrong eating, the same as all other

symptoms  of  disease.  No  doubt  the over-weight  of  the  average  man,  in  general, is
another  cause  of  subluxation.  Under  longer  fastings  I  saw  many  deformed  spines
improve wonderfully.
There  are  various  other  methods  used  to  shake  the  tissues  and  stimulate  the
circulation, i.e., electricity, electric light, sunlight, etc. All of these methods help and
relieve, more or less, but they can never heal perfectly just as long as they fail to pay
sufficient attention to a correct diet; in other words, the elimination of disease or foreign
matters  will  never  be  complete  as  long  as  the  intake  thru  wrong  foods  is  not
discontinued, and an entirely new blood-building is established thru real, natural and
clean, mucusless foods.
Mental Treatments
It cannot be denied that the condition of the mind has an influence on every kind of
disease. It is proven that fear, sorrows and worries have a bad influence, not only on the
heart and nerves, but on the circulation, digestion, etc. Psychotherapy, Mental and Divine
Healing,  Christian  Science,  have  this  one  great  advantage—they  save  the  unfortunate
sick from the injuries of drugs! On the other hand, I cannot grant them too much credit,
for  while  they  are  harmless  in  a  certain  sense,  they  have  a  tendency,  consciously  or
unconsciously, to keep people in complete darkness as to what disease really is.
We who know exactly what disease is, cannot agree with a teaching that endeavors to
make sick people believe they can be healed by a miracle, or a forced imagination—that
they  are  not  sick  at  all—even  though  they  are  actually  dying  that  very  minute!  It  is
farcical, not to say pitiful, to pray to the Creator for a miraculous healing, rejecting and
disregarding real divine foods—the fruits of the paradise—the “bread of heaven”, and
instead stuff your stomach three times daily with harmful prepared foods, manufactured
by man for commercial purposes, and never destined by the Creator to be man's food at
all.
It is rather difficult to believe in Mental Healing at all, after knowing as I do thru
actual experiences with thousands of patients, that the average chronic sick, especially
the well fed one, is in fact a “living cesspool”. Nature is the manifestation of the divine
laws, and there are no miracles in Nature. If you have eaten wrong for 30, 40, 50 years,
thereby producing your disease, you must do the necessary compensation as reparation
for your sins, you must do the opposite by eating clean, natural, divine food, which will
produce health instead of disease. That is as clear as sunlight, and as logical 2 × 2 = 4.
The  philosophy  of  Mrs.  Eddy  is  a  poor  copy  of  Schopenhauer's  “World  of
Imagination”—that  the  mind  only  is  real,  and  not  the  physical.  Her  logic  would  be
correct if she had said: “It was never the intention, nor in the plan of God to produce
disease,  but  as  a  logical  consequence,  thru  disobedience  of  the  divine  laws  of  life,
disease is produced.” There could be no disease if men would live right, in accordance
with  the  divine  story  of  the  Genesis  arguments.  In  the  light  of  evolution  we  may
understand the true meaning of the Lord, even when He says He “will punish and kill
them till they come back to Him”. In plain instead of mysterious words, you and all
mankind will suffer and die from disease as long as you fail to return again to the laws of
the Creator, to the laws of Nature, as man lived in paradise.

Practitioners of the “Mucusless Diet Healing System” should avail themselves of the
knowledge  already  gained  and  live  on  mucusless  foods,  the  divine  clean  food  of  the
Genesis, fruits and green-leaf vegetables (called herbs), so that they may demonstrate the
truth as living examples.
This will aid the patient to learn and believe the truth as exemplified by yourself, and
free his mind from all wrong and superstitious ideas about disease, as well as from all
doubts  about  the  one  and only  way  of  real  help,  the  compensation  of  his  disease-
producing habits.
You must heal, that is, free the patient's brain from all ignorance, and lift his mind
with the light of truth so that he may have unshaken faith to follow your advice with
enthusiasm! That is the true essential for “mental healing”.

Confusion in Dietetics