LESSON XII.

The  average  vegetarian  diet  omits  only  meat  from  the  menu,  and  their  mixture  of
larger quantities of fruits (good foods) with eggs and milk cause over-eating—in most
cases being worse than moderate meat-eating, and a “less mixed” diet.
Three prominent physicians improved the vegetarian diet, but they fail like all other
dietitians on the following single point. They believe, more or less, in high protein foods
during  the  diet  of  healing.  In  other  words,  all  dietitians  without  a  single  exception,
outside of myself, think that the body, and especially the sick and weak one, requires
“good, nourishing food” to be healed—overlooking the fact that Nature alone heals, and
does it best by fasting. (Please read Lesson 5 again, so that you may fully comprehend
the reason.)
Dr.  Lahmann,  a  German  physician,  proved  in  his  “The  Dietetical  Disformation  of
Blood”, that carbonic acid is the cause of all diseases, but he failed to see the deeper
cause, the fermentation caused thru mucus-forming foods mixed with fruits. He believed
in, and fell a victim to, the protein theory in spite of his greatly advanced knowledge.
Dr.  Haigh,  an  English  physician,  with  his  “Anti-uric  acid  diet”  showed  much
improvement, but failed in the same manner as Dr. Lahmann.
Dr. Catani, an Italian physician, made up a diet of fruits, green vegetables and meat,
eliminating all starch, and healed, more or less, including cases of rheumatism and gout,
while  Dr.  Haigh  blamed  meat solely  for  these  diseases.  The  secret  of  Dr.  Catani's
starchless diet is its laxative effect. It relieves like the laxatives contained in mineral-
water springs, but does not heal perfectly. You can see where the point of confusion lies.
Dr.  S.  Graham,  an  American  physician,  whose  “Physiology  of  Nourishment”  was
fundamental at the time, improved the bread especially; but the improvement consists
not in the fact that Graham, Bran and Whole Wheat bread is more valuable than ordinary
white bread, but thru its efficiency owing to a less constipating quality than white bread.
White  flour makes good paste,  Graham  or  Whole  Wheat  flour does not.  Dr.  Graham
found an opponent in Dr. Densmore of England, who claimed that overeating of bran,
whole cereals and graham bread caused inflammation of the intestines. This is, of course,
and  exaggeration,  but  Dr.  Densmore  helped  the  general  improvement  of  dietetics  by
advocating more fruits and vegetable.
Dr. Lahmann, the German chemist Hensel, and some authorities in this country, are
the  founders  of  what  may  be  called  “the  mineral  salt”  movement.  The  stress  in  this
dietetic reasoning is placed upon the fact that all acid and mucus forming foods lack the
necessary mineral salts. But it proved a fad like the protein fad, thinking health could be
regained  by  overflowing  the  body  with  artificially  manufactured  mineral-salt
preparations, and keeping up your old wrong habits at the same time. You improve—
relieve to a certain limit, but never heal perfectly.
In a later lesson you will learn how the chemist Ragnar Berg improved this “system”
to a certain degree. He neutralizes acid-forming foods with mineral-salt-rich ones. At

present among the vegetarian health-seekers “raw food diet” is in fashion. No doubt it
represents great progress, but the arguments are partly wrong and lead to mistaken and
fanatic extremes.
They claim all cooking destroys food values, but it should properly be said: “Wrong
cooking destroys healing value qualities (efficiency) of foods, and can even cause them
to become acid-forming.” The “raw food” experts hint on the same wrong stress, as all
others, i.e., the higher food value.
The entire effect or benefit from raw food is the rough fiber of uncooked vegetables,
which relieves constipation, and acts as an ideal “mucus broom” in the intestines. I do
not believe that the human body assimilates “food-value vegetables” such as cauliflower,
asparagus, turnips, potatoes, or cereals in their uncooked state. After a certain beneficial
mechanical cleansing of the bowels thru these raw foods the one-sided raw-food eater
lacks, in fact, the most important food substance, and that is grape or fruit sugar, unless
he eats sufficient fruits.
Significant and instructive is this experiment. Put a lemon in a moderate dry heat a
few minutes, and it becomes sweet, like an orange. You develop grape sugar; but let it
bake  a  little  too  long,  or  if  cooked,  it  becomes  bitter.  On  the  same  principle  all
vegetables when baked improve by developing into grape sugar the more or less starch
they contain. This is true of carrots, beets, turnips, cauliflower, etc.
Raw fruits and, if desired, raw green-leaf vegetables form the ideal food of man. That
is  the  mucusless  diet.  But  the  mucusless  diet  as  a  healing  system  uses  raw,  rough
vegetables for their cleansing qualities, baked ones as food, and baked and stewed fruits
AS A LESS AGGRESSIVE DISSOLVER of poisons and mucus to MODERATE THE ELIMINATION IN
SEVERE CASES. This is one of the most important principles of the system, a point the
raw-food fanatic ignores entirely. Eating raw potatoes, raw cereals and unfired pies is, in
my opinion, absurd and worse than if they are carefully baked, which means developing
the starch into at least partly digestible gluten and grape sugar.
Fletcherism
The American,  Horace  Fletcher,  developed  a  complete  dietetical  healing  system  in
itself with great success on himself and others. His theory was to eat whatever kind of
food you desired, but chew every bite 10 to 15 minutes. You may eat one sandwich a day
and  get  rid  of  your  trouble.  The  secret  is  simply  this:  It  is  a  camouflaged  fast;  the
stomach and intestines have a rest the same as when fasting, and elimination is promoted
and the vital organs recuperate. But when continued longer the bowels constipate from a
lack of solid food, and it is said that Fletcher himself died thru severe “trouble” in these
organs.
Another camouflaged fast in its effect is the Salisbury cure. A small piece of beefsteak
and a little toast, once a day, nothing else. Relieves, improves, but never heals perfectly.
Under the same classification is the milk diet, which puzzles even the most advanced
experts of fasting and dietetics by its partial success in many cases. The secret is this: If
you replace three “square” meals a day consisting of at least three courses each, with a
few quarts of milk (liquid) the obstructions in the human engine are much less (read
Lesson 5), you feel better and the body partially eliminates and, in many cases, relieves

your  trouble.  But  all  milk-dieting  patients  suffer  sooner  or  later  from  terrible
constipation because milk is a first-class, sticky mucus-former.
Schroth Cure
This so-called “dry cure”, founded by one of the great pioneers of Naturopathy, is in
its effect also a camouflaged fast. Three days eating nothing else other than dry bread,
with NOTHING TO DRINK; the fourth day unlimited drink of light wine and some food,
combined with all-night wet packs. This causes a tremendous elimination, if you can
stand the severity of this “horse cure”. Schroth had marvelous success and a world-wide
reputation,  but  many  who  had  gone  thru  this  quick  help  many  times  came  to  my
sanitarium and I found they had very weak hearts and lacked more or less the elastic
efficiency  of  the  tissues.  Read Lesson 5 again, and you will understand the reason at
once. I use the same principles of this cure in an improved form in cases where there was
no reaction with a drink fast or by the mucusless diet as follows: Two or three days
nothing but dried fruits followed by one day of juicy fruits and starchless vegetables
produces  a  most  efficient  elimination,  but  is  only  advisable  for  relatively  “strong”
people.
There are hundreds of other dietetical cures on the “market”, and every once in a while
one of them becomes fashionable; from the long fast and “fruit fast” up to the so-called
“scientifically prepared” mixtures of medical and non-medical dietitians. The average
health seeker thinks that there is some special food or special mixture to be eaten for his
particular  ailment  and  he  tries  everything—but  always  in  vain,  as  long  as  he  doesn't
know  and  doesn't  understand  that  there  is  but  one  disease—inside  dirt,  waste  and
obstructions, and that these obstructions must and can be systematically eliminated only
by the very opposite of the disease-producing, mucus forming foods, that is, by “THE
MUCUSLESS-DIET  HEALING  SYSTEM,”  a  mucusless  diet,  consisting  of  fruits  and  herbs,
meaning green-leaf vegetables, considered “unfashionable” since the time of Moses, that
great Dietician and Faster (see Genesis).
The more we learn about Natural laws that rule and govern our health—the less we
need fear the destructive onslaught of disease. Only thru a mucus-free diet can we expect
to eliminate the accumulation of waste and obstructions deposited in the body tissues
during  a  lifetime  of  wrong  eating.  Give  the  body  a  clean  blood  stream  and  it  will
function harmoniously as Nature intended it should.

Confusion in Dietetics (Continued)