LESSON XIV.

You can now understand that the dietetical problem is not solved as the average man
imagines thru simply knowing which foods are best and the kind of foods the mucusless
diet consists of. You were taught in the previous lesson knowledge unknown to all others
—what happens and what must happen in the human body if the sick man eats only the
“best  foods”  or  takes  a  long  fast.  Later,  you  will  learn  how  this  stirring  up  and
eliminating  of  mucus  by  “good  foods”  and  fasting  can  and  must  be  controlled  by
yourself, the treating physician or dietician.
You may now see of what little value and how injurious it may become for the average
health-seeker to stuff his stomach daily with terrible mixtures of “good food”, “raw food
combinations” (in the belief that raw food alone will restore health), without any plan or
system—without any regard of the disease and his mental or physical condition.
In spite of my antipathy towards “faddists” I will submit a selection of tables prepared
by one of the most advanced experts of physiological chemistry, Ragnar Berg, of the
special laboratory for food research at Dr. Lahmann's sanitarium of Germany.
Berg's deductions are as follows:
That  you  must  eat  as  much  mineral  salt-containing,  non-acid  producing,  alkaline
containing  foods  as  necessary  to  bind,  neutralize,  compensate  the  harmful  acids
contained in the acid-producing foods which make up the average man's daily menu. In
other words, if you want to eat meat, eggs, nuts, milk and starchy foods, you must also
eat fruits and starchless vegetable to be healthy. It is surprising to note that the majority
of foods he calls “acid forming” is what I call “Mucus forming”, and what he calls “acid
binding”, that is, non-acid food, is almost exactly what I call “mucusless”.
His tables are undoubtedly the best in existence, and their value for us consists in the
knowledge of the good and the bad qualities of every food in percentage. He calls it
positive and negative properties. You will perhaps be further surprised to note that he
endorses  and  proves  by  scientific  analysis  that  my  classification  of  harmful  foods,
mucus-forming  and  non-mucus  forming  ones  or  mucusless  diet,  is  correct  and
scientifically perfect! He proves scientifically what I had long before found out, that
every food, which contains and produces mucus after decaying in the system produces at
the same time acid. Very remarkable—and important for us to know—is what he found
concerning fertilizing and also the result of the average cooking of foods.
Ordinary fertilizing by animal and human excrements, or even by too much minerals
(sulphuric  acid  ammoniac  and  superphosphate  and  by  over-irrigating)  changes  the
positive  good  properties  into  negative  “bad  ones”,  or  at  least  decreases  the  good
qualities. The grower secures the advantage as they look attractive, are of good size and
weight and consequently bring a good market price, costing the consumer more for food
that is really harmful.
This likewise happens thru wrong cooking in too much water—the good qualities go
into the water and the present day cook throws these valuable mineral salts away.

As  much  more  fertilizing  is  done  in  Europe  than  in  this  country,  you  can  readily
understand  why  specially  fertilized,  rapidly  growing  vegetables  such  as  asparagus,
cabbage, cauliflower, etc., show less value than may be the case with the same variety of
vegetables grown here.
In explanation of his tables, Berg states:
“To these various methods of changing healthy foods into poisons belong sulphuring
dry  fruits,  using  benzoid  of  soda  or  salicylic  acid  (both  strong  poisons)  to  preserve
canned foods from fermentation. The most dangerous one is the method of using the
steam of sulphuric acid.”
Imagine, if you will, how people are fooled by the showing of big fruit and splendid
looking vegetables—nice bright looking, sulphured fruits.
“The American eats with his eyes”, says Dr. Harry Ellington Brook, “preferring snow
white bread, a real starvation food, robbed by refined milling of all mineral salts”—one
of the highest negative foods in Berg's table.
Especially  when  packed  in  expensive  showy  paper  boxes  he  considers  it  best,  and
willingly pays higher price, little realizing that he is actually “eating his way to death”
with these “perfectly combined foods” of modern commerce.
Ragnar Berg's tables of food analysis showing the positive or good properties and the
negative or bad properties in percentage proves how much acid a food produces (at the
same time the amount of mucus) and the percentage of mineral salts of the special kind
of alkaline to neutralize acids.
From my standpoint you can see the:
Qualities of a food in percentage to “stir up”, dissolve, neutralize and eliminate mucus
together with its terrible acid poisonings, stored up in the system since childhood.
These tables by Ragner Berg were published in Germany 10 years after my “mucus
theory” of disease and food qualities had been taught, and Berg unconsciously gave the
scientific proof that my “mucus theory” is correct.
The mere fact that some foods given in the list are “acid-binding” does not necessarily
mean  that  I  endorse  their  use. This list is given as a comparison only and should be
studied for what it is worth. Please understand that I am not endorsing Berg's theories.
Undoubtedly by squeezing lemon juice on fish or eating a goodly portion of acid-binding
vegetables at the same meal as acid-forming foods are partaken of, the harmful effect is
partly lessened.
The  higher  the  “acid-binding”  qualities  of  a  food,  the  more  valuable  as  a  mucus-
eliminator. Black radish when in season, spinach, dandelion and dill are all excellent
internal scourers:
Berg's Tables









Transition Diet