LESSON XVI.

Special Transition Recipes
Being known as a “diet expert” I receive continual requests for a “diet book”, or at
least a collection of food combinations, mucusless recipes and menus.
Many volumes have already been published by numerous dietitians, which are now on
the market, varying in price from $1.00 to $10.00. They call it “scientific diet”, but not
one of them is in accord with Nature, such as exists in the animal kingdom, and which is
SIMPLICITY, with absolutely no mixtures at all.
I must again remind you that cattle, for instance, when in the wilderness eat absolutely
nothing  else  than  grass  during  their  entire  life.  No  animal  when  eating  combines
different foods at the same time or even drinks between mouthfuls of food, with the
possible exception of domesticated animals changed into mixed eaters by civilized man.
The ideal and at the same time most natural method of eating for man is one kind of
fresh  fruit,  in  season,  and  you  will  soon  notice  after  you  have  been  living  on  the
transition  diet  for  awhile,  that  you  will  feel  more  satisfied  and  in  fact  are  better
nourished with one kind of fruit, than with all kinds of scientific mixtures or prepared,
made up foods. This condition cannot of course take place until your body is perfectly
clean.
During the transition diet I use food combinations and mixtures prepared from cooked,
steamed  or  baked  foods  for  technical  reasons,  to  better  perform  the  healing  process
intelligently, systematically and under control.
Vegetables and Fruits
My experience has taught me that only raw celery, lettuce, carrots and beets combine
well with fruits. In general, it is best never to use more than three kinds with the same
combination. Always use one kind as the prevailing “stock” or base.
For a bad, acid or “mucused stomach” use menus consisting of more vegetables and
very little fruits. For a stomach in better condition, or the average stomach, use more
fruits and less vegetables. The following is an example:
1.   FOR A BAD STOMACH: Take as stock  grated or shredded raw carrots, or grated
celery or grated beets may be used, altho carrots are best. Add  of finely sliced
very  ripe  bananas  and  a  few  raisins  or  sliced  dried  figs.  No  nuts  or  cereals.
NEVER MIX NUTS WITH WET FRUIT.
2.   FOR A BETTER STOMACH: Take as stock  sliced or grated apples,  shredded
carrots (or celery or beets). To increase the efficiency of this combination in its
aggressive,  dissolving  functions  as  a  mucus  and  poison  eliminator  add  more
raisins, sliced dried figs, honey or a fruit jelly.
Fruit acid dissolves waste and forms gases; fruit sugar ferments in the waste and stirs
up, also forming gases. Both eliminate and for this reason it can become harmful if they
work too intensively. It is therefore advisable to use raw vegetables as a “broom” more

frequently. For this same reason, use stewed fruits in the beginning, or at least half and
half; for example half raw grated apples (with the skin) and half apple sauce, sweetened
with honey.
A “Square Meal” Substitute
Before  a  crisis,  during  or  shortly  after,  or  to  satisfy  a  craving  for  wrong  food
especially rich in fat, you may try the following occasionally. While too rich, they are
much less harmful than a square meal and will be found to be very enjoyable:
Take some grated cocoanut, mixed or eaten together with apple sauce, stewed prunes
or sweetened apricots.
Very ripe bananas, or if unripened then baked, will be found to satisfy when unusually
“hungry”.
Other  kinds  of  grated  nuts,  or  nut  butter  may  be  served  once  in  a  while  for  this
purpose, but are too rich in protein and will produce, if continually used, mucus and uric
acid.
Improved “Cooked” Vegetables
Only one kind of cooked vegetable should be used at one meal. It may be eaten either
cold or warm, and mixed with green salads and raw vegetables.
If cabbage, carrots, turnips, beets, cauliflower, onions, etc., are slowly stewed in a very
little  water,  or  best,  if  carefully  baked,  they  become  sweeter,  which  proves  that  the
carbon-hydrates are developed into grape sugar, more or less, and the mineral salts are
not destroyed and not extracted. This is in fact an improvement and not waste.
In winter canned foods may be used as a substitute for fresh ones. I differ from the raw
food “fanatics” because the food value is not important in a diet of healing. It is of more
importance that the patient should and shall enjoy his change of diet during the transition
until his tastes and conditions have improved.
Special “Mucus-Eliminator” Recipes
1.   Raisins and figs or nuts, masticated thoroughly with raw green onions at the
same time. These must not be eaten separately to secure best results.
2.   Grated horse-radish mixed with honey. After mixing allow to stand to take off
sharp taste. The honey is only used to make it more palliative. Two-thirds horse-
radish, and 1/3 honey, or to suit the taste. The ordinary radish, especially the
black radish, may also be used the same way, or finely sliced and eaten alone as
a salad. For consumptives who cough without spitting, give one spoonful every
once  in  a  while.  There  is  a  surprising  amount  of  mineral  salts  in  radishes,
especially the black radish.
Recipe for a Special Dissolver of Hardened Mucus and Uric Acid
With the following recipe I once healed a woman, who after six years of paralysis,
became  entirely  normal,  when  both  fasting  and  the  mucusless  diet  failed  to  effect  a
recovery. It cannot be taken into a mucus-filled stomach. The recipe follows: Take the
juice  and  pulp  of  four  lemons.  Grate  the  peel  of  one  lemon  and  mix  with  the  juice.

Sweeten with honey, brown sugar or fruit jelly to taste. The object of the sweetening is to
make the mixture less sour and bitter.
Dressings
This is really a question of personal taste. A good salad or olive oil with lemon juice
to taste is simple and good. A spoonful of peanut butter or nut butter dissolved in water
and a little lemon juice added is another simple recipe. Add finely sliced onions (green)
if  desired.  Homemade  mayonnaise,  using  lemon  instead  of  vinegar,  is  not  especially
harmful during the transition diet and can be used if you enjoy it. Tomatoes cooked into
a sauce, or good canned tomato soup mixed with the dressing may help you enjoy the
“transition diet”.
Drinks
Even if the use of table salt is discontinued, you will sometimes be very thirsty during
your transition diet, because your mucus, now back in the circulation and the waste of
decayed unnatural foods, eaten with salt during your former life is very salty. When in
the circulation you will suffer from unnatural thirst. A light lemonade with a little honey
or brown sugar will relieve the thirst much better than plain water.
The juice of any of the acid or sub-acid fruits makes a good drink and the best is sweet
apple cider, if not too sweet. Cereal coffee, or even light genuine coffee, if this was your
customary drink, can be used during the transition period.
Supplement to Transition Diet Menus
and Combinations
The “standard menu” of the day in my Sanitarium, besides special prescriptions for
patients under personal treatment, was as follows:
A drink in the morning.
LUNCH: One or two kinds of fruits.
SUPPER: Vegetables, mucuslean or mucusless.
This diet quickly brings the average man, not called sick, into better condition. Slight
spells  may  be  manifested  in  some  manner  or  other,  but  an  “old  chronic”  or  severe
disease, caused chiefly thru a drug poisoned body, must be treated by systematically and
individually  prescribed  daily  menus,  continually  changing  same,  “speeding  up  and
slowing down”, according to the patient's changing condition.
The Mucusless Diet Healing System is NOT a propaganda like Vegetarianism or the
Raw Food Movement; it is a clinical THERAPY OF EATING  that  has  to  be  studied  and
intelligently advised and prescribed personally, the same as is being done by all other
methods of drugless healing and therapeutics.
This diet heals every disease if it is possible to be healed at all, because all disease-
producing foods are finally eliminated from the diet menus, and the new ones loosen, stir
up, remove and eliminate, clean, heal and cure the body.
You  build  up  a  new  and  for  the  first  time  in  your  life  a  perfect,  natural  blood
composition such as defined in Lesson 8. This new blood removes and eliminated finally

and unfailingly every disease matter even though your doctor failed to locate exactly
where it was.
The function of healing, the “operation without the knife”, the cleansing, eliminating
process begins almost immediately and must of necessity be conducted, controlled and
supervised for weeks and even months to secure proper results. The knowledge contained
in  these  lessons  is  sufficient  to  enable  the  student  to  properly  supervise  his  own
individual case.
The  menus,  combinations,  mixtures  and  recipes  are  therapeutical  adjustments  to
enforce the self-healing of the body, called disease, and not to suppress or to stop it as is
done with drugs.
The  average  patient  expects  the  right  diet  to  help  him  at  once;  therefore  the  great
desire for curative menus and mixtures. Even most of the advanced doctors imagine that
a few menus and combinations from one day to the other is all the knowledge necessary.
As yet they don't know the truth that you have learned in the previous lessons, that
Physiology and Pathology are fundamentally wrong, that all present day ideas about food
and nourishment are entirely wrong and diametrically opposite to the truth. Therefore
they do not have the slightest idea what happens and what must happen in the human
system, if for the first time in the patient's life the decade's old waste and poisons are
stirred up and have to be eliminated thru the circulation.
You must realize and perceive that you are starting on an entirely new and perfect
revolution, regeneration and rejuvenation of your body, when you change your diet in
this way, and it cannot be accomplished within a few days by simply eating some good
menus and mixture.
Mucuslean Recipes
If a little starch food is eaten after a meal it can be called a MUCUSLEAN DIET. But
these starchy foods can be made less harmful by destroying or neutralizing more or less
sticky properties of the pasty starch. The more the potato is baked the better. Toast well
done is best.
Raw cereal should be roasted first whenever desired, and will be found to work as a
good  intestinal  broom,  altho  they  contain  stimulants.  Rice  is  a  great  mucus-former
because it makes the best paste, but it can be improved by soaking over night in water
(you will notice that the water becomes very sticky and slimy and of an awful odor).
Pour off the water from the rice and either fry or bake it a little.
A Mucuslean Bread Recipe
Mix a rough bran flour or whole wheat flour with raw grated carrots, half and half, add
only as much white flour as necessary to keep the dough, add somewhat grated apples
and a handful of grated nuts; also if desired, some raisins. Bake very slowly and well.
This is best eaten when two or three days old or well toasted.

Vegetarian Recipes