LESSON XIII.

After the severe critique of all important dietetics I must admit that I do not deny that
all of them possess, and have done, considerable good towards the development of the
dietetical solution of the food problem and healing of diseases by diet.
Reviewing the entire development during the past 25 years this fact remains: With the
progress  of  chemistry,  medical  experts  arrive  at  the  following  conclusion:  “We  now
know exactly all of the elements contained in the human body, and therefore know what
must be eaten for upbuilding, for replacement of used-up cells and for producing vitality,
efficiency, strength and heat.”
You  were  taught  in  former  lessons  why  these  “conclusions”  are  wrong  and  have
produced  the  “protein”  fad  and  later  the  “mineral  salt”  fad,  and  now  the  very  latest
fashion,  i.e.,  the  “raw  food”  fad.  Without  knowledge  of  the  “great  unknown”  their
conclusions  must  be  wrong.  This  great  “unknown”—unknown  to  the  chemical  and
medical  experts—unknown  to  the  average  man  and  health-seeker—unknown  to  the
layman dietitian—unknown to the general dietetical systems now in vogue—this “great
unknown”  is  “O”  in  my  formula,  “V”  equals  “P”  minus  “O”—the  waste,  the  mucus;
acids and poisons, the;
Obstruction, or “O”
in the sick, and also in the average so-called “healthy” human body.
In other words, if human nourishment could ever be figured by mathematical chemical
formulas telling exactly what to eat, you will still be fooled by Nature—just so long as
any ideal food is mixed with and put into this waste of mucus and acids already in the
human system thru years of wrong living. Nature confuses you—so long as you fail to
recognize  her  facts  and  her  truths—but  Nature  herself  is  not  fooled.  To  the  average
layman raw food reacts more or less mysteriously—as long as it is mixed with your own
mucus—as long as it stirs up mucus and its toxemias in the unclean diseased body and
eliminates  these  poisons.  All  laymen  and  experts  covering  the  entire  dietetical
movement up to the present time are puzzled, confused, ignorant and still in complete
darkness  of  the  fact  that  in  general  the  average  man first becomes worse,  sometimes
developing boils and all kinds of sores—“troubles” up to “indigestion” just as soon as he
starts what he believes is a correct and best diet, living on a radical fruit, mucusless or
raw-food diet.
“Tell me what to eat”, wails the sick, “I want a daily menu for my special disease”
(like  a  drug  prescription),  and  he  then  considers  that  as  all  sufficient.  When  the
elimination sets in he says: “These foods don't agree with me”, instead of recognizing
that the transition-diet has already started in a moderate way to dissolve and to eliminate
the  old  waste  in  the  body—with  some  disturbance,  of  course. You  must  make  them
realize  the  necessity  of  putting  up  with  this  temporary  inconvenience,  and  consider
themselves  fortunate  indeed  to  be  able  to  continue  with  their  daily  work  instead  of
undergoing an operation, which would mean months in a hospital. The foods agree with
them, but they do not agree with the foods.

Now you may understand why the “Mucusless Diet” is a system in which every change
in diet has certain duties to perform—as a diet of healing to be applied systematically
according to the condition of the sick.
You  will  now  understand  why  and  in  what  manner  I  differ  from  all  others.  The
“Mucusless  Diet  Healing  System”  is  not  a  collection  of  different  menus  for  every
disease; it is not “made-up” combinations of valuable and nourishing foods—it is not
like a medical prescription or a compilation of standard diets suitable for all diseases,
but  it  is  a  system  of  dietetical  changes  and  dietetical  improvements—a  system  of
dietetical elimination of disease matter, waste, mucus and poisons; a system of slowly
changing and improving the diet as a diet of healing towards—and up—to the ideal and
natural  food  of  man—FRUITS  ONLY—or  fruits  and  green-leaf  vegetables—THE
MUCUSLESS DIET.
It is therefore a personally supervised and in every case different, modified, scientific,
systematical,  progressive  method  of  “eating  your  way  to  health”,  combined  if  found
necessary, with short or longer fasts.
It is a healing process thru which every sick person must go if he wants to be perfectly
healed;  it  is  an  exclusive  dietetical  “curing  and  healing,  rebuilding  and  regenerating
process” based on the use of harmless and natural food for mankind “coined” and set
biologically by the Creator in “Genesis”—“FRUITS AND HERBS” , or ‘MUCUSLESS DIET”.
Nature will do her part if we but give her half a chance. Try it out for yourself and watch
for results.

Ragnar Berg's Tables