LESSON XI.

In this very important lesson it is necessary for me to convince you, once and for all,
of the following fact:
First—That in food (in diet) lies 99.99% of the causes of all diseases and imperfect
health of any kind.
Second—That consequently, all healing, all therapeutics will continue to fail as long
as they refuse to place the most important stress on diet.
Third—That  what  I  call  “mucusless  diet”  and  “mucus  forming  foods”  divides
characteristically  all  human  foods  into  harmless,  natural,  healing  and  real  nourishing
foods, and into harmful, disease-producing ones.
Fourth—That all other dietetics are mainly wrong because they lay their stress on food
values entirely, whether “wrong” or not, instead of the healing, cleaning, eliminating
values  and  their  efficiency  before  the  healing  process  is  started,  going  on  or
accomplished at all. (See Lesson 5.)
The dietetical problem, “What shall man eat to be healthy or to heal his disease”, is in
fact the problem of life, as little as it is considered or even known as the most important
question. Long ago I coined the following phrase; “Life is a tragedy of nutrition.” The
confusion and ignorance regarding what to eat is in fact so great that it must necessarily
be called the “missing link” of the human mind.
That  medical  science  and  even  so-called  “natural”  therapeutics,  see  dietetics  in
general  as  a  secondary  question  of  healing,  is  significant.  Even  the  efficiency  of  a
machine depends upon the quality and amount of its fuel. There is no longer any doubt
existing  regarding  the  fact  that  a  plant  depends  more  on  the  kind  of  soil  rather  than
climate to produce a high quality of fruit. Farmers understand thoroughly that everything
depends on what they feed their live stock. Health and disease of the animal and human
body is 99.99% dependent on food. This is tremendously manifested by Nature thru the
simple fact that every animal refuses food when sick. The animal instinct of responding
to every disease or even accident by fasting is Nature's demonstration that health and
disease  depend  mainly  and  entirely  from  eating  or  not  eating,  as  well  as  the  kind  of
foods.
That  the  average  man,  and  even  the  reformed  doctors,  blame  everything  on  earth,
excepting food, as the cause of their disease is due to the tragical fact that disease is as
yet a mystery in their minds. They don't know (and speaking for the doctors, they don't
want to learn), how terribly unclean the inside of the body is, caused thru the life-long
habit  of  over-eating  ten  times  as  much  as  required—in  many  cases  harmful  foods
mostly, or even exclusively.
If the average eater, even in so-called “perfect health”, fasts 3 or 4 days his breath and
the  entire  body  as  well  as  his  discharges  are  of  an  offensive  odor  which  signifies,
demonstrates  and  indicates  that  his  system  is  filled  up  with  decayed,  uneliminated
substances  brought  in  thru  no  other  manner  than  by  eating.  This  accumulated  and

continually increasing waste is his latent, unknown “disease”, and when Nature wants to
eliminate by any kind of a “shock”, commonly known as disease, he first tries everything
to “heal” himself, excepting to fast, to stop increasing the cause of the disease, the inside
waste.
You have now learned how wrong medical practice is, trying to stop Nature's healing,
eliminating process, called disease, and thereby increasing the inside waste thru drugs
and  serums.  But  “natural”  therapeutics  of  all  kinds  of  elimination  will  never  heal
perfectly just so long as you fail to discontinue the supply of inside waste caused by
eating and “wrong” eating. You may clean, and continue to clean indefinitely, but never
with complete results up to a perfect cleanliness, as long as the intake of wrong or even
too much right foods, is not stopped.
If it is a fact that food alone is chiefly to blame for all disease—as Nature so clearly
demonstrates—then  it  is  logical  and  self-evident  that  you  can  heal  only  by  diet;  and
radically only, if necessary, with the most rational diet; fasting—Nature's only “remedy”
in the animal kingdom.
Therefore, if any kind of diet shall heal it must consist of food, not according to food
values  as  to  their  nourishing  and  rebuilding  qualities,  but  according  to  qualities  of
healing, of cleansing and of elimination.
Here is the cardinal reason why, as well as where, all other dietetics fail. My diet of
healing, the “Mucusless Diet”, divides, as stated above, all foods strictly into two kinds;
certain ones which heal and certain ones which produce disease.
It is not sufficient, as the layman imagines, to know which foods are mucusless and
which are mucus-forming, but:
1.   HOW FAR AND HOW FAST THE CHANGE CAN SUCCESSFULLY BE MADE.
2.   HOW THE COMBINATION OF DIFFERENT FOODS HAS TO BE ARRANGED.
3.      HOW  LONG  AND  HOW  OFTEN  FASTING  MUST  BE  INTRODUCED  AND  COMBINED
DURING THE HEALING DIET IF FOUND NECESSARY.
This is and represents the “SYSTEM” of the Mucusless Diet and Fasting as well as
what the Practitioner has to study and must learn, and what the layman does not know
and consequently why he must inevitably fail when trying to cure himself with “good
foods”.
After the foregoing explanation you will at once see in the following critique of the
best known dietetics, why they are imperfect, and why the confusion is so great. In later
lessons you will also learn of every kind of food, why it is good, and why bad. In case
you are still unaware of the foods which are mucusless, and which mucus-forming, they
are as follows:
All fruits, raw or cooked; also nuts and green-leaf vegetables are mucus-free.
All  other  foods  of  civilization, without exception, are mucus and acid-forming, and
therefore are harmful.

Confusion in Dietetics (Continued)