LESSON XXIII.

Sex Diseases
Thru the knowledge in past lessons, you now know and can realize more than any
Naturopath  that  there  is  no  principal  difference  between  any  one  kind  of  disease  or
another.
In  this  particular  case,  however,  we  find  an  exception,  but  only  in  so  far  as  the
symptoms of syphilis are concerned. Venereal diseases can be healed by diet and fasting
easily  for  the  simple  reason  that  the  patient  is  generally  young  in  years.  The  cure
becomes more aggravated, made more difficult, if drugs have been used. This, of course,
has unfortunately happened in almost every case.
The  so-called  characteristic  symptoms  of  any  kind  of  syphilitic  disease  are  due  to
drugs of one or several kinds.
Gonorrhea
Nothing is easier to heal than this “cold” or “catarrh” at the sex organ, if untouched by
drugs or injections. Doctors must admit that this condition may exist without actual sex
intercourse,  and  therefore  the  germ  can  hardly  be  blamed.  Gonorrhea  is  simply  an
elimination  thru  this  natural  elimination  organ.  One-sided  meat  eaters  are  very
susceptible to this disease. Should a society girl contract it, they call it Leukorrhea.
If drug injections are used for any continued length of time the mucus and pus are
thrown back into the prostatic gland, bladder, etc. In case of the female the entire womb,
uterus becomes inflamed, producing all kinds of typical woman diseases.
I  had  hundreds  of  such  cases  where  Naturopathy  failed  to  heal.  Only  fasting  and
mucusless diet can help.
Roseola or rose rash, a syphilitical eczema, characterized by its “ham-gray” shade, the
gray shade of the whites of the eye, is due to saltpetre acid, silver oxide injections. This
also is the cause if gonorrhea enters the bone. All three are called syphilitic symptoms.
Mercury is to blame for the hard chancre, secondary and tertiary syphilis.
The so-called “syphilis” does not exist in the animal kingdom, or among uncivilized
people.  Drugs  are  to  blame  for  these  destructive  diseases,  together  with  the  diet  of
civilization. Sexual excesses are, of course, also to be blamed, but knowing exactly what
disease is, you may agree if I expose the “mystery” of this disease with one stroke, i.e.,
drugs  and  extreme  meat  diet  of  civilization  are  far  more  to  blame  than  all  sexual
excesses together.
For a patient poisoned especially by mercury a very careful and long transition diet is
necessary. A radical fruit diet or fast may become harmful, not thru itself but caused by
the drugs when they become dissolved and are back in the blood stream for elimination.
This  condition  requires  so  careful  a  control  of  the  elimination  that  under  all
circumstances and expert with previous experience is required.

The so-very-common disease of dislocation, or falling of the womb, can be healed and
only by this diet, together with long fastings combined with short fasts and with a long
preparative diet.
Prostatic  gland  inflammation,  stricture,  bladder  disease,  hundreds  of  these  patients
have I saved from the tortures of doctors. I have made cures even after Naturopathy had
failed  by  natural  methods  of  elimination  thru  a  new  and  perfect  blood  composition
resulting from a mucusless diet
Sex Psychology
It is significant for our civilization that sexual intercourse is seen as an immoral act. It
is yet in the shade of a mystery. From a natural moral standpoint, says a philosopher, an
unclean  man  has  no  right  to  produce  a  new  being.  “You  shall  not  only  generate,  but
reproduce yourself”, says that great thinker, Nietzsche.
The fact is that we are all, with very few exceptions, the result of stimulants instead of
love vibrations exclusively. Procreation is the most holy and divine act and charged with
the highest responsibility, especially on the part of the father. A germ with the slightest
defect is a generation not forward but downward. In very old and in classic civilization
“Sex” was a cult, a religion, and in every mystology, poetry of all civilized people, love
is  the  great,  main  and  general  subject  with  the  conscious  or  unconscious  goal  to
reproduce his kind.
The fact is proven by statistics that every family of the city's population dies out,
disappears with the third or fourth generation. In other words, the “sins” of the fathers
and of the mothers produce diseased children and children's children degenerating into
death with the third generation. What are these “sins”? You shall “love thy neighbor”,
and you do, perhaps, but you kill your own child, partly at least before it is born. Latent
disease is general and universal. Besides the statistical fact that over fifty per cent of all
young  men  in  large  cities  have  gonorrhea  and  young  women  Leukorrhea,  how  can  a
defective germ grow into a perfect being between a filthy, mostly constipated colon and
an unclean bladder of a civilized mother? And one of the worst tragedies of ignorance is
the expectant mother who eats twice as much decayed “cadavers” of animals killed years
ago in the stock yards of Chicago, because she is advised to “eat for two”—herself and
the growing embryo.
Natural Control of Sex
“Nothing above the truth—confess your sins to your own heart.” It is a blasphemic
paradox,  tragical  (there  is  no  word  strong  enough)  condition  to  stimulate  a  function
continually with enforcement ignorantly expecting thereby to grow healthy and happy,
believing you can suppress or control this function by preaching morals.
Nature does not listen to you, but you must listen to Nature if you want to be happy.
We are the product of stimulation's and not of natural love vibrations which eventually
lead to impotence.
The only way to heal impotence is thru fasting and this diet. See Lesson 5. Sex is a
part of vitality, it is even so to say, the barometer of regeneration, rejuvenation, youth,
health and happiness.

I have seen sterility of the female healed, and every patient who earnestly took up this
system for any kind of disease “rejuvenated”.
No one of western civilization knows what genuine “love vibrations” mean from a
body with clean blood composed of such ingredients that produce electric currents and
static electricity sent out and received by “wireless”—hair. See what I have to say about
hair in my “Rational Fasting”. The beard of man is a secondary sex organ. Beardless and
hairless and bald makes for “second-rate” sex quality in every respect. See Judges 16:15-
20.
If you could believe how easy it is to control sex by this diet you would soon quit your
steaks and eggs.
Masturbation, night emissions, prostitution, etc., are all eliminated from the sex life of
anyone living on a mucusless diet after their body has become clean and powerful.
The fallacy that saving, keeping the germ (an idea of modern experts) will nourish
man's brain (high protein substance) is absurd. Love is the greatest power and it is, if
natural, the highest “invisible food” from the infinite for soul and body.

Sex (Continued)