LESSON XXV.

As shown in previous lessons all physical treatments vibrate—shake—the tissues and
thereby  stimulate  the  circulation  in  one  way  or  another  for  the  purpose  and  with  the
result  of  loosening  and  eliminating  “foreign  matters”,  the  cause  of  all  diseases.  The
human body does this itself, in the most perfect way, as soon as you fast or as soon as
your blood composition has been changed by natural diet.
Physical treatments and physical culture can therefore be combined with this diet and
fasting to enforce and to hasten the elimination. However, I must advise that extreme
care be taken not to exaggerate—especially on “bad” days—days of strong elimination.
If you are tired and you feel bad, then rest and sleep just as much as you can. On the days
that you feel “good” during a fast or strict diet, you may take some physical treatment
also, such as exercise, baths, massage, deep breathing, etc.
The most natural exercises and by far the best, are walking, dancing and singing; the
latter  being  the  natural  breathing  exercise  with  the  added  advantage  of  loosening  by
chest vibrations. An excellent “exercise” and one that everybody knows, is hiking in the
mountains, for when climbing hills, you increase your breathing in the most natural way,
better and more harmoniously than with any “system” of exercises.
The cleaner you become the more easily you will understand what I teach in Lesson
5—that air and the other ingredients of the forests are “food”—invisible food.
Both  hands  should  be  free  when  walking,  so  as  to  permit  continually  the  natural
movements.
Outdoor garden work is another natural exercise.
By  taking  the  proper  care  of  your  body  you  will  generate  health.  The  following
exercises are suggested for those who desire to keep physically fit. I must again remind
you that air is more necessary to life than food. Proper breathing is therefore essential.
Do not exercise in a close, stuffy room. Stand before an open window. Take a deep, full
breath with each exercise. Inhale through nose and expel through mouth. Stand before a
mirror while exercising and admire the suppleness and graceful manner in which you
perform each movement. Fall in love with yourself if no one else will. Keep the feet
about 15 inches apart—stand erect and use muscular tension.
Exercise No. 1
Standing erect, hands to the side, clench the fists tightly. Raise arms slowly as high
above the head as possible, taking a deep breath. Relax and expel breath. Repeat five
times.
Exercise No. 2
Extend arms level with chest. Grasp hands tightly and pull to right side, resisting with
left  hand.  Then  go  thru  same  motion  pulling  to  left  side.  Relax  after  each  motion,
expelling breath. Repeat each exercise five times.

Exercise No. 3
Grasp left hand firmly with the right in front of body. Resisting with the left-hand lift
with the right, using full strength while raising the arms high above head. Take deep
breath on upward motion, and relax before expelling. Repeat with the right hand resisting
with the left, five times each.
Exercise No. 4
Clasp hands above the head allowing them to rest on head. Bend to the right side,
pulling hard, then to the left five times, then alternate first left and then right. Between
each  movement  take  deep  breath  and  expel  when  relaxed.  This  exercise  is  especially
good for stimulating the liver.
Exercise No. 5
Clasp hands in back of neck, holding all muscles tense. Twist to the right, then to the
left five times. Now pull to the right and then to the left five times. Now pull to the left
and then to the right five times. Hold legs rigid, but permit body to sway.
Exercise No. 6
Grasp the hands behind the back and without bending the body raise arms up as far as
possible. Inhale on upward motion, relax and expel. Repeat five times. This exercise is
for developing the chest.
Exercise No. 7
Place right hand over right hip, clench left fist and raise left arm slowly, taking a deep
breath. At the same time bend the body as far to the right as possible. Make it hurt. Relax
and expel breath. Repeat with left hand placed on hip, and raising right arm with fist
tightly clenched. Repeat each five times.
Exercise No. 8
Grasp hands firmly in front of breast, all muscles tense and twist to left. Now twist to
right as far as possible. Do not permit feet to move. Inhale during motion, relax and
expel breath. Repeat each exercise five times.
Exercise No. 9
Raise  arms  above  the  head  as  high  as  possible,  and  even  permitting  body  to  bend
backwards. Now bend body forward and without bending the knees try to touch the floor
with your fingers. Exhale breath when relaxed. Repeat this exercise slowly five times,
and gradually increase to 20 times.
Do not exhaust yourself in any of the exercises. If the exercises make you stiff at first
it is a sure sign that you needed them, and that they are doing you good. The soreness
will  soon  wear  off  if  you  continue  the  exercises  persistently.  You  may  add  other
exercises to these, but be sure they have the deep breathing. Play your phonograph when
exercising.  Any  snappy  march  piece  will  do.  The  vibrations  from  the  music  are
wonderful. It is preferable to exercise the first thing in the morning—immediately upon
arising. If clothing is worn it should be loose. Start with a few at first and gradually
increase, but above all things, do not consider it a duty, but put fun into them. Dancing

by  yourself  and  bending  movements  to  the  accompaniment  of  music  will  prove  very
beneficial.
Sun Baths
Whenever you have an opportunity of doing so, take a sun bath. In the beginning do
not exceed 20 to 30 minutes and keep the head covered. On “bad” days—days of great
elimination—stay cool.
The cleaner you become the more you will enjoy the sunbath and the longer you will
remain. You will also find that you can stand it much warmer. A short cool shower bath
or a cool rub with a towel dampened in cold water immediately after the sunbath is good.
The  sunbath  is  an  excellent  “invisible”  waste  eliminator,  and  rejuvenates  the  skin,
causing it to become like silk and coloring it a natural brown. Civilized men of our race
show by their white skin that they are sick from birth on; they inherit the mucused, white
blood corpuscles—the “sign of death”.
As all of the clothing should be removed during a sunbath, a small enclosure just long
enough  to  lay  in  should  be  built  in  your  back  yard,  or  even  on  the  roof,  away  from
prying, inquisitive eyes. The clothing of civilization has made it impossible for man to
secure his proper quota of the life-giving power of fresh air and sunshine, so essential to
health and happiness. The direct rays of the sun on the naked body supply the electricity,
energy  and  vitality  to  the  human  storage  battery,  renewing  it  in  vigor,  strength  and
virility.
Internal Baths
During the transition period, even though you have regular bowel movements, it is
advisable  to  wash  out  the  lower  colon.  The  sticky  waste,  slimy  mucus  and  various
poisons which Nature is attempting to eject should be helped along as much as possible.
A small bulb infant syringe can be used after the regular bowel movement, but for a
thorough cleansing from two to three quarts of water should be used.
Try to have a natural bowel movement before injecting the water. The body should be
in a reclining position, lying on the right side. The syringe must not be higher than three
or four feet above patient. Water should be warm, not hot, and can be tested on your
elbow. Should any discomfort be felt, stop the flow until the discomfort passes as the
entire two or three quarts should be retained at one time. If the cramp or pain becomes
too great, allow the water to pass from the colon and repeat the operation.
The  water  should  remain  in  the  intestines  about  15  or  20  minutes,  or  as  long  as
convenient.  While  still  lying  on  your  side  gently  massage  the  ascending  colon  in  an
upward motion. Then lie on the back with the knees drawn up and massage from right
side of body to left; now turn over, lying on the left side and massage the left side with a
downward motion. You should now be ready for ejecting the water. The best time to take
an enema is just before retiring.
Bathing
Authorities differ on bathing almost as widely as they do on diet. The Mucusless Diet
System will produce the “skin you love to touch” thru clean blood supply, and without

the aid of cosmetics, lotions and cold creams.
It  is  not  necessary  to  take  a  daily  hot  bath  with  soap  and  brush  under  ordinary
conditions.
The  morning  “cold  shower”  during  the  entire  year  without  any  consideration  of
weather conditions is also inadvisable. There is no need to deliberately subject the body
to an extreme shock, and in a number of cases more harm than good may result.
Needless to state the skin must be kept clean so that the pores may be permitted to
properly function, and this can be accomplished by the following method: Place a basin
of cool water before you. Dip the hands in basin and starting with the face rub briskly;
wet the hands again and apply to the neck and shoulders; next rub the chest and stomach;
next the arms and then the back and last the legs and feet. Put the feet right into the basin
if  you  care  to.  Keep  moistening  the  hands  as  needed,  but  there  is  no  necessity  for
throwing any quantity of water on the body. To dry off rub with the bare hands for five
minutes if possible, until the body is all aglow or wipe with towel. This should be done
upon arising immediately after you have taken your exercises. The results will surprise
you. If you prefer a tub bath then allow about one inch of cold water to run into the tub.
Sit in same with knees drawn up and follow the same rule of rubbing and massage as
outlined above.
Remember that the air bath is just as essential as the water bath. A few minutes each
day spent before an open window, upon arising and just before retiring, when all clothes
are  removed,  massaging  the  body—helps  the  skin  to  retain  its  natural  functioning
qualities.
Always bear in mind that extremes of any kind are harmful. This applies to exercise,
bathing and sleeping, as well as extremes in eating. Even extreme joy and happiness has
been known to kill just as readily as extreme anger, hate and worry. Therefore, AVOID
EXTREMES OF ALL KINDS.

A Message to Ehretists