LESSON XX.

Important Rules to be Carefully Studied
and Memorized
What can be said in general, and what I teach is new and different from the average
fasting experts, and is as follows:
1.   The first meal and the menus for a few days after a fast must be of a laxative
effect, and not of nourishing value as mostly all others think.
2.   The sooner the first meal passes thru the body the more efficiently it carries out
the loosened mucus and poisons of the intestines and the stomach.
3.   If no good stool is experienced after two or three hours, help with laxatives and
enemas. Whenever I fasted I always experienced a good bowel movement at
least one hour after eating, and at once felt fine. After breaking a long fast I
spent more time on the toilet than in bed the following night-and that was as it
should be.
While sojourning in Italy many years ago, I drank about three quarts of fresh grape
juice after a fast. At once I experienced a watery diarrhea set in foaming mucus. Almost
immediately  after  I  experienced  a  feeling  of  such  unusual  strength  that  I  easily
performed  the  knee-bending  and  arm-stretching  exercise  352  times.  This  removal  so
thoroughly of obstructions, taking place after a fast of a few days, increased “P”–vitality
at once! You will have to experience a similar sensation to believe me, and then you will
agree with my formula, “V”=“P”–“0”, and you will realize the absurdity of making up
scientific nourishing menus for health and efficiency.
4.   The longer the fast the more efficiently the bowels perform after it is over.
5.   The best laxative foods after a fast are fresh sweet fruits; best of all are cherries
and grapes then a little soaked or stewed prunes. These fruits must not be used
after a meat-eater's first fast, but only for people who have lived for a certain
time on mucusless or at least mucus-poor foods—the “transition diet”.
6.      In  the  average  case  it  is  advisable  to  break  the  fast  with  raw  and  cooked
starchless vegetables; stewed spinach has an especially good effect.
7.   If the first meal foods do not cause any unpleasantness, you may eat as much as
you can. Eating only a small quantity of food for the first 2 or 3 days without
experiencing  a  bowel  movement—owing  to  the  small  amount  of  food  taken
(another wrong advice given by “experts”)—is dangerous.
8.   If you are in the proper condition so that you can start eating with fruits, and you
have no bowel movement after about an hour, then eat more or eat a vegetable
meal as suggested above, eat until you bring out the waste accumulated during
the fast with your stool, after eating the first meal.
Rules During the Fast

1.   Clean the lower intestines as well as you can with enemas, at least every other
day.
2.   Before starting a longer fast, take a laxative occasionally and by all means the
day before you start the fast.
3.   If possible, remain in the fresh air, day and night.
4.   Take a walk, exercise, or some other physical work only when you feel strong
enough to do it; if tired and weak, rest and sleep as much as you can.
5.   On days that you feel weak, and you will experience such days when the waste is
in the circulation, you will find that your sleep is restless and disturbed and you
may experience bad dreams. This is caused thru the poisons passing thru the
brain. Doubt, loss of faith, will arise in your mind; then take this lesson and read
it over and over, as well as the other fasting chapters and especially Lesson 5.
Don't forget that you are, parenthetically speaking, lying on Nature's operating
table; the most wonderful of all operations that could be performed; and without
the use of a knife! If any extraordinary sensation occurs due to the drugs that are
now in the circulation, take an enema at once, lie down, and if necessary break
the fast, but not with fruits.
6.   Whenever you arise after lying down, do it slowly, otherwise you may become
dizzy.  The  latter  condition  is  not  serious,  but  you  had  better  avoid  it  in  this
manner.  It  caused  me  considerable  fear  in  the  beginning,  and  I  know  of  a
number  of  fasters  and  strict  eaters  who  gave  up  when  they  experienced  this
sensation—lost their faith forever.
Fasting Drinks
The “fanatic” fasting enthusiast drinks only water. He thinks it best to avoid any trace
of food whatsoever. I consider a light lemonade with a little honey or brown sugar or a
fruit juice the best. Drink as often as you care to during the day, but in general not more
than 2 or 3 quarts a day. The less you drink the more aggressive the fast works.
As a change, vegetable juices made from cooked starchless vegetables is very good
during a longer fast. Raw tomato juice, etc., is also good. But if fruit juice—for example,
orange juice, is used during a long fast, be extremely careful because the fruit juices may
cause the poisons to become loosened too rapidly without causing a bowel movement. I
know  a  number  of  such  fruit  or  fruit  juice  fasts  which  failed  completely  because  all
mucus and all poisons if loosened too fast and too much at one time disturbs all organs
too greatly when in the circulation, and can be eliminated only thru the circulation and
without the aid of bowel movements.
Morning Fast or Non-Breakfast Plan
The worst of all eating habits nowadays is to stuff the stomach with food early in the
morning.  In  European  countries,  excepting  England,  no  one  takes  a  regular  meal  for
breakfast; it is generally a drink of some kind with bread only.
The only time that man does not eat for 10 to 12 hours is during the night while he is
asleep. As soon as his stomach is free from food, the body starts the eliminating process

of  a  fast;  therefore  encumbered  people  awaken  in  the  morning  feeling  miserable  and
usually have a heavily coated tongue. They have no appetite at all, yet they demand food,
eat it, and feel better—WHY?
Another “Mystery” Revealed
This is one of the greatest problems I solved, and is one that puzzles all “experts” who
believe it is the food itself. As soon as you refill the stomach with food, THE ELIMINATION
IS  STOPPED  and  you  feel  better!  I  must  say  that  this  secret  which  I  discovered  is
undoubtedly the explanation of why eating became a habit and is no longer what Nature
intended it should be, namely a satisfaction, a compensation of Nature's need of food.
This  habit  of  eating,  affecting  all  civilized  mankind  and  now  physiologically
explained  involves  and  proves  the  saying  I  coined  long  ago:  “Life  is  a  tragedy  of
nutrition.”  The  more  waste  that  man  accumulates,  the  more  he  must  eat  to  stop  the
elimination. I had patients who had to eat several times during the night to be able to
sleep again. In other words, they had to put food in the stomach to avoid the digestion of
mucus and poisons accumulated there!

Fasting (Continued)