LESSON XVII.

Some Improved Recipes of Salad Dressings
Condiments  are  much  less  harmful  than  mucus  forming  foods.  The  so-called
poisonous  table  salt  is  a  very  good  mucus  dissolver.  The  average  mixed  starch  eater
could not stand this diet without salt. Of course with the perfect mucusless diet the want
and need of salt will be eliminated automatically and with that the unnatural thirst.
MAYONNAISE: Beat thoroughly for at least  5  minutes  one  egg,  to  which  add  VERY
SLOWLY a few drops at a time one pint of good salad oil, continue beating while adding
oil. Add lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. If tomato flavor is desired you may add the
juice of one tomato.
FRENCH  DRESSING:  Mix  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  four  tablespoons  oil,  ¼  teaspoon
honey,  ¼  teaspoon  salt,  ¼  teaspoon  paprika.  Mix  l¼  tablespoons  of  oil  with  the  dry
ingredients, stir well and add the lemon juice. As dressing thickens thru stirring, add the
rest of the oil and a little garlic flavor if you like.
Some Standard Mucusless Cooked Recipes
As  I  said  before  you  may  call  the  Coleslaw  and  Carrot  Combination  the  Standard
Transition Salad. Now I will give you the Standard Cooked Mixture.
Serbian Vegetable Goulash
Stew in a very little water or in olive oil or in a vegetable fat, coarsely sliced white or
red cabbage and some sliced onions with some sliced sweet peppers, when in season, and
finish stewing with some sliced tomatoes; a little salt and pepper if desired.
Red or white cabbage with onions baked or broiled in a little fat and tomato sauce, as a
gravy is an appetizing dish. The same can be done with cauliflower, carrots, brussels
sprouts, beets with the leaves, etc.
The idea is to bake dry as possible and to afford occasionally an enjoyable harmless
substitute for the chops, roasts, etc., which you have discontinued.
Some Special Suggestions Concerning My “Cook Book”
You will notice that all menus and recipes are surprisingly short. If you fall back into
the same gluttony-like mixtures, eating foods as described in vegetarian cook books and
even in raw food books you will never be perfectly healed. The ideal menu for man is the
“mono-diet”, consisting of one kind of fruit in season and I must again remind you that
no animal in freedom is a “mixed eater” at one meal.
You  learned  that  I  use  partly  cooked  food  during  the  transition  diet  and  in  the
beginning  the  vegetables  prevail.  This  has  for  its  purpose  the  slowing  down  of  the
elimination, for it is well known that people can stand a stewed or baked fruit whereas
they cannot stand the same kind when fresh. Vital food is not the entire object to be
gained at first, but rather their property to dissolve and to eliminate. This vital healing
efficiency  is  most  perfect  in  all  kinds  of  fresh  fruits  and  will  be  found  to  be  too

aggressive for the majority of patients. This is undoubtedly the cause of the wrong ideas
and reason for the “fruit fast” being in ill repute, and it is the same reason why I use
stewed and baked fruits in the beginning to slow down elimination.
Whenever you feel bad, the cause is that you have too much dissolved mucus and
probably old drugs in the circulation; then slow down the elimination by not eating raw
fruits, nor even cooked fruits at all and for a few days eat cooked or raw vegetables only.
Vegetables work more mechanically and dissolve less.
Later  on  when  the  roughest  waste  is  eliminated  from  your  body  and  it  becomes
necessary like in all cases of a severe chronic disease to carry the elimination by the new
blood deeper and deeper into the tissue system, the diet must be restricted more and
more, as the healing process continues.
In the following lessons you will learn how a Fruit Fast must be undertaken, what
Scientific Therapeutical Fasting is, and last but not least how the “Mucusless Diet” is
properly combined with fasting if found necessary, or the principles and the details of
the Mucusless Diet Healing System.
NOTE: Prof. Ehret frequently refers to having purposely omitted recipes, in spite of
repeated  requests,  and  gave  as  his  reason,  “In  Nature,  such  as  exists  in  the  animal
kingdom, there are absolutely no mixtures at all. The ideal and most natural method of
eating is the mono-diet. One kind of fresh fruit, when in season, should constitute a meal,
and you will find yourself better nourished. This condition, of course, cannot take place
until  you  have  thoroughly  cleansed  your  body  of  toxemic  poisons,  mucus,  or  call  it
foreign substances”.
We feel sure that Prof. Ehret would have approved and granted permission to include a
few mucus-lean recipes, particularly of salads, in the 22nd edition of his Mucusless Diet
Healing  System,  after  being  convinced  as  we  have  that  the  public  demand  requires
substitutes from the present day acknowledged method of food preparation, if they are to
successfully take up the Ehret method. And so, with this thought in view, and with the
hopes of converting many more to the Ehret System, we present a few sample menus
simply as examples of how to combine and prepare a meal.
Numerous other equally tasty menus can be arranged by simply changing either the
cooked vegetable or combination of raw vegetables.
The ideal diet of man is the mono-diet and mixtures are prone to lead to gluttony, so that
this should be remembered when arranging the meal.
1.     ALWAYS  EAT  FRUIT  FIRST.  The  digestion  of  ripe  fruits  takes  place  within  a
normal  stomach  within  a  few  minutes  after  eating.  Wait  five  or  ten  minutes
before eating your vegetable course.
2.   DO NOT DRINK LIQUIDS OF ANY KIND WITH MEAL. Liquids of all kinds (including
soups) interfere with proper digestion of meal. At least thirty minutes should
elapse before drinking both before and after eating.
3.   MAN'S FOOD IS FRUITS and HERBS–(Genesis 1). For healing purposes, uncooked,
starchless green leaf vegetables (parsley, carrots, celery, lettuce), combined with
fruits both in their natural and cooked state, will be found to be much better than

an exclusive fruit diet.
4.   MIX BUT FEW VARIETIES. Fruit meals should consist of not more than two kinds of
fruits in season. Your appetite will dictate the quantity to be eaten.
5.   NEVER EAT NUTS WITH JUICY FRUITS. When nuts are eaten with fruits such as
oranges, apples, pears, etc., the water makes nuts indigestible. Dried fruits—
figs,  raisins,  dates,  prunes,  can  be  eaten  dry  with  nuts.  Chew  together  and
masticate thoroughly. The fruit sugar helps to digest the nuts.
6.   NATURE'S OWN BOOK IS SIMPLICITY. The fewer food mixtures the better. Three
different varieties should be sufficient—four and five is often too many.
7.   DO NOT OVER-EAT. Mother Nature requires moderation in all things.
Sample Menus
Cottage  Cheese  and Apple  Sauce  mixture. Add  raisins  if  desired.  Place  on  bed  of
Lettuce and serve.
A  ten  minute  intermission  affords  the  family  an  opportunity  of  talking  over  the
PLEASANT happenings of the day-and always bear in mind that laughter aids digestion.
Salad—Natural Vegetable Combination Salad.
Baked Cauliflower. (Boil Cauliflower until about half done—then bake in oven until
brown.  Use  a  suitable  vegetable  shortening  when  baking  in  preference  to  butter  fats.
Serve either hot or cold, and add dressing to suit.
Two pieces Zweibach toast.
Dried Fruit (such as Raisins, Dates, Figs) and Walnuts or Pecans (chewed together).
Salad-Cooked Combination Salad. Serve on Lettuce leaves.
Baked Irish Potato.
Fresh Fruit in season such as Peaches, Apricots, Grapes, etc.
Russian Salad (Tomatoes, Carrots, Celery, Watercress, Onions).
Swedish Rye Krisp.
Carrot and Raisin Salad.
Ehret's Serbian Goulash.
Toasted Whole Wheat Bread.
Apple Sauce with Raisins.
Coleslaw Salad. Slice raw Cabbage finely. Add Lemon juice to soften and allow to
stand at least one hour before serving. Add chopped Onions, Celery and cold cooked
Carrots or Peas. Dressing to taste.
Baked Sweet Potato.

Mashed ripe Bananas with fresh Strawberries and Honey to sweeten.
Mexican Coleslaw.
Baked Banana Squash.
Cottage Cheese and Apricot Jam.
Lettuce and Tomato Salad.
Ripe Olives.
One cooked vegetable.
Baked Potato.
Baked Apple with Honey.
Elimination Salad.
Baked Artichoke.
Zweibach
Stuffed Prune Salad.
Vegetable Chop Suey.
Baked Potato.
Baked Apple or Apple Sauce
Baked Beet Tops.
Whole Wheat Toast.
Salad Recipes
Natural Combination Salad – Large bowl of lettuce cut very fine, 4 handfuls radishes,
cut very fine, 4 handfuls tomatoes, chopped, 2 handfuls parsley, cut very fine. Add oil
and lemon juice, and mix thoroughly, let stand 15 minutes. Add a little mayonnaise if
desired.
May Salad – Large bowl of chopped cabbage, 1 cup of radishes, cut fine, ½ cup sweet
green peppers, chopped fine, 1½ cups chopped tomatoes, 1 cup green onions, chopped
fine,  ½  cup  parsley,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  cucumbers,  chopped—if  in  season.  Mix
thoroughly. Add 2 tablespoons lemon juice and 3 tablespoons mayonnaise. Garnish with
olives or radishes, for decoration.
Apple and Celery Salad – Two cups cubed apples to which lemon juice has been added
to keep from discoloring, 1 cup chopped celery, ¼ cup fine chopped parsley, 1 handful
seedless  raisins,  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise,  mixed  thoroughly.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce
leaves.
Cabbage Salad – Two cups shredded cabbage, 1 cup finely chopped green peppers.
Add 2 tablespoons lemon, soak 10 minutes. Add 2 tablespoons mayonnaise dressing. Mix

thoroughly. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. Decorate with chopped pimento.
Carrot and Raisin Salad – Two cups coarsely shredded carrots. Soak ½ cup seedless
raisins about 2 hours, ½ cup finely chopped celery. Mix thoroughly. Add 2 tablespoons
mayonnaise.
Stuffed Prune Salad  –  Fill  centers  of  cooked  prunes  with  cottage  cheese.  Place  1
blanched almond in center of cottage cheese. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise.
Cooked Combination Salad – One cup diced cooked carrots, 1 cup cooked peas, 1 cup
chopped  cooked  string  beans,  ½  cup  finely  chopped  raw  celery.  Mix  thoroughly,  add
mayonnaise. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves.
Serbian Slaw – One cup coarsely chopped celery, 1 cup finely sliced cabbage, ¼ cup
finely chopped onions, ¼ cup minced olives, 1 tablespoon chopped pimento. Add oil and
lemon juice.
Fruit Salad (served in Apple Shells) – Select good looking apples. Cut off piece of top
and  remove  meat  of  apple.  Chop  together  the  apple  hearts,  pineapple,  grapefruit  and
cherries, in equal parts. Add lemon juice. Sweeten with honey and place in the shells of
apples. Sprinkle with grated cocoanut
Mexican Coleslaw – Two cups of finely sliced red cabbage, ½ cup chopped celery, 1
cup red kidney beans, ¼ cup chopped onions, ¼ cup chopped peppers. Add olive oil and
lemon juice.
Carrot and Apple Salad – One cup chopped carrots, 1 cup cubed apples, soaked in
lemon juice, ½ cup chopped celery, finely chopped onions to flavor, ½ cup finely sliced
dates. Add olive oil and lemon juice. Soak for 15 minutes. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves.
Summer Salad – One cup chopped watercress, ½ cup chopped tomatoes, ½ cup diced
cucumbers, ½ cup diced celery. Add olive oil and lemon juice. Mix thoroughly and serve
on crisp lettuce leaves.
Russian Salad – Two ripe tomatoes, 4 medium size carrots, diced, ½ finely chopped
onion, 2 sprigs chopped watercress, 2 stalks celery, cut in 1-inch lengths and split. Mix
with mayonnaise. Serve on bed of lettuce. Garnish with sliced tomatoes.
Asparagus Salad – Cook asparagus and cut into 3-inch lengths. Make bed of finely
sliced lettuce. Put asparagus on lettuce. Add mayonnaise if desired.
Cauliflower and Pea Salad – Cook cauliflower and break into small pieces. To 2 cups
cauliflower, add 1 cup cooked peas and 1 cup chopped parsley. Add mayonnaise and
serve on lettuce leaves.
Asparagus and Cauliflower Salad – Boil asparagus and cut tips in 3-inch lengths. Boil
cauliflower and break in small pieces. Mix together in equal portions. Add mayonnaise.
Serve on lettuce leaves.
Brazilian Salad – One and one-half cups ripe strawberries, 1½ cups cubed pineapple,
fresh, 12 blanched thinly sliced Brazil nuts, marinated in 4 tablespoons of lemon juice.
Arrange  lettuce  on  plates  in  rose  shape.  Fill  crown  with  above  mixture.  Cover  with
spoonful of mayonnaise. Decorate with strawberries.

Date and Celery Salad – Chop dates and celery-equal parts. Serve with mayonnaise,
on lettuce.
Waldorf Salad – One and one-half cups diced apples, ½ cup lemon juice, 1¼ cups
diced celery. Mix apples, celery and lemon juice well together. Use crisp, tart apples.
Drain off lemon juice. Add mayonnaise dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce. Decorate with
grated walnuts.
Mock Chicken Salad – Two cups finely sliced cabbage, 1 cup celery, 2 tablespoons
finely chopped onion, ½ cup green peppers, finely chopped, 1 cup cubed nut loaf, cold.
Add 2 tablespoons mayonnaise. Mix thoroughly. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. Decorate
with olives.
Grated Carrot and Spinach Salad – One cup grated carrots, 1 cup chopped spinach, 1
cup coleslaw. Add lemon juice to spinach and coleslaw and soak 10 minutes. Prepare
salad plates with leaves of crisp lettuce-bottom layer coleslaw, second layer chopped
spinach. Top layer grated carrots. One spoonful mayonnaise, and ripe olive in center for
decoration.
Elimination Salad – Two cups chopped spinach, 2 cups coleslaw, 1 cup fresh green
peas, 1 cup chopped celery. Mix thoroughly. Add lemon juice and oil. Serve as desired.
Watercress Salad – Make bed of lettuce. Chop watercress. 2 tomatoes, sliced.
Mixed Salad – Chop lettuce leaves (1 large bowl), 2 cups chopped tomatoes, 1 cup
chopped celery, 1 cup chopped onions, ½ cup chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly. Add
lemon juice and oil.
Onion Salad – Two cups finely sliced cabbage, 1 cup sliced red onions, 1 cup chopped
tomatoes,  ½  cup  coarsely  chopped  parsley.  Add  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise  and  mix
thoroughly. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. Decorate with radishes.
Cooked Vegetable Recipes
Stuffed Onions  –  Select  good  sized  onions.  Remove  slice  from  top  of  each  onion.
Parboil onions until almost tender. Strain and remove centers, making six cups. Chop
onions that were scooped out. Combine with soft crumbs or chopped pepper and tomato
pulp.  Add  seasoning  to  taste.  Refill  onion  cups.  Place  in  pan  and  cover  with  onion
crumbs. Add ½ cup milk. Bake until tender.
Spinach Loaf – Wash spinach thoroughly. Cook in its own juice until tender. Drain
and chop. Chill and add onion finely chopped and the celery, finely cut. Moisten with
French dressing. Mold and bake in pan. Serve hot or cold.
Spinach Cutlets – Wash fresh spinach and beet tops thoroughly. Cook separately in
own juice until tender. Drain off water after cooking and chop. (Canned spinach can be
used if desired). 1 cup fresh beets medium size cooked until tender and diced. Braise 1
cup  chopped  celery,  1  large  onion  coarsely  sliced  and  one  Bell  pepper  chopped-in
cooking oil until golden brown. 1 cup either peanuts or walnuts coarsely chopped. 1 cup
whole  wheat  cracker  crumbs  or  toasted  whole  wheat  crumbs.  Place  all  ingredients  in
chopping bowl and chop thoroughly. Mold into round patties or cutlets. Dip in cracker
crumbs and fry in cooking oil or olive oil. Serve either hot or cold.

Sauteed Sweet Potatoes and Carrots – Two cups diced sweet potatoes, 2 cups diced
fresh carrots or one 8 oz. can. Cook sweet potatoes until tender. If fresh carrots are used,
cook in covered pot with as little water possible, until tender. With canned carrots, drain
liquid. Combine sweet potatoes and carrots and saute in frying pan using vegetable or
olive oil. Season with flavoring. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley before serving.
Vegetarian Hash  –  ½cup  cooked  lima  beans,  ½  cup  cooked  peas,  ½  cup  chopped
celery, ½ cup toasted bread crumbs, 2 cups boiled or baked potatoes diced, ½ cup diced
beets cooked, 4 tablespoons cooking oil, 2 boiled onions chopped, 2 tablespoons whole
wheat flour. Brown onions and flour in oil, add 2 cups hot water, cook until done. Add
rest of ingredients and bake until brown.
Lima  Beans  and  Cabbage  en  Casserole  –  Two  cups  shredded  cabbage,  1  pound
package fresh frozen lima beans or two 8-oz. cans, toasted bread crumbs, vegetable oil.
Cook cabbage in covered pot for about 12 minutes, or until tender, using as little water as
possible. Prepare frozen lima beans same way. If canned limas are used, drain liquid. Put
alternate layers of vegetables in oiled baking dish. Dot with vegetable oil, add toasted
bread crumbs and bake in moderate oven 15 to 20 minutes. Serves six.
New England Boiled Dinner – Four and one-half cups potatoes, 1 cup turnips, 2 cups
onions, 1¾ cups carrots, 2½ cups cabbage. Cut potatoes, carrots and turnips in ¾-inch
cubes. Slice onions. Cut cabbage into pieces about 1½ inches square. Boil potatoes and
onions together. Cabbage may be either cooked separately or added to carrots and turnips
when they are partially cooked. When all are done, mix together and serve.
Baked Artichokes – Boil until done. Remove from water. Spread open a few of outside
leaves and add garlic cloves. Place in pan. Pour over olive oil and bake in oven about 25
minutes.
Egg Plant Hash – Cut in half lengthwise. Place in oven until baked to a mushy pulp.
Remove and peel. Mash. Add fried onion. Season with salt and pepper.
Baked Beet Tops – Boil beet tops and spinach separately, half of each. Drain and chop.
Braise  onions.  Add  chopped  celery.  Mix  all  together.  Put  in  pan.  Cover  with  bread
crumbs and bake.
Vegetable Chicken a la King – Two stalks sliced celery, 2 cups chopped bell peppers,
¼ cup pimento, ½ cup green peas, ½ cup carrots, cubed. Add sliced onion. Make cream
whole wheat flour gravy. Serve on whole wheat toast or patties.
Mock Chicken Croquettes – Make base of braised onions, bell peppers and celery.
Add  mashed  baked  potatoes,  carrots,  peas—or  other  cooked  vegetables  if  preferred.
Toasted bread crumbs. Mold and bake in oil, until golden brown.
Vegetable Chop Suey  –  Braise  coarsely  chopped  onions.  Put  in  pot  to  bake.  Add
chopped celery, bean sprouts, chopped bell peppers, water chestnuts, dried mushrooms
(soak mushrooms at least three hours before using), tomatoes to flavor. Bake in oil until
golden brown.
Mock Country Sausage – Boiled brown rice, bread crumbs, toasted, celery, chopped
walnuts, peanut butter, sliced onions braised. Flavor with garlic and sage. Salt to flavor.
Mold in round balls. Bread and dip in hot oil until golden brown.

Vegetable Hamburger – Braise onions with bell peppers. Add garlic to taste. Cook
together. Add toasted bread crumbs, celery, walnuts and hominy. Mold and bake in oiled
pan. Serve with onions.
Stuffed Bell Peppers – Four large peppers, l½ tablespoons margarine, 1½ tablespoons
whole wheat flour, 1 cup milk, ½ cup chopped nut meats, 1 cup bread crumbs, ½ cup
diced  celery,  4  teaspoons  grated  onion.  Remove  seeds  from  peppers  and  parboil  10
minutes. Drain. Add chopped nut meats, celery, bread crumbs and grated onion. Season
to taste with salt and pepper. Fill cooked drained peppers with mixture. Spread additional
crumbs on top of peppers. Bake in margarine.
Baked Tomatoes  –  Cut  tops  from  tomatoes  and  scoop  out  pulp.  Season  pulp  with
grated onions and parsley. Replace into shells of tomatoes, put tops back on, cover and
bake for 25 minutes, basting with good salad oil. Arrange on bed of watercress or lettuce
surrounded by sliced cooked beets. Use dressing desired.
Carrot Nut Loaf – Two cups coarsely chopped carrots, ½ cup toasted crumbs, 1 cup
chopped celery, ½ cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup mashed tomatoes, ½ cup braised sliced
onions. Mix together, add 2 tablespoons margarine. Place in loaf pan and bake ½ hour.
Vegetable Sausage and Sauerkraut – One cup sliced onions, 2 cups natural brown
rice, ¼ cup finely chopped peanuts, ½ cup toasted crumbs. Braise onions in margarine.
Soak rice over night, or at least 6 hours, and after pouring off water, add fresh water and
boil until soft. Mix rice, crumbs, peanuts and onions. Mold in shape of sausages, dip in
egg and roll in fine cracker crumbs. Dip in hot oil until golden brown. Warm sauerkraut
and serve.
Zucchini Italienne – Slice in about ½ inch thickness 2 good sized zucchini, 1 good
sized tomato, ½ red onion, sliced and 1 small clove garlic, if desired. Cook zucchini and
onions for about 30 minutes, add tomatoes and cook additional 10 minutes.
New Potatoes and String Beans – Steam potatoes and peel. Cook string beans with as
little water as possible. Place both on baking pan and add chopped parsley. Pour over
Italian Olive Oil and warm in oven for 15 minutes. Serve.
Corn Saute – Two cups shoepeg corn, ¼ cup chopped bell peppers (braised), ¼ cup
chopped  onions,  cup chopped pimentos. Mix ingredients and bake 15 minutes in a
slow oven.
Vegetarian Corn Beef – One cup cubed carrots, 1 cup cabbage, coarsely chopped ½
cup potatoes, ½ cup celery chopped. Steamed vegetables. Fill baking pan ½ full with
brown gravy, add ingredients, brush lightly with margarine, and bake 10 minutes at 400
degrees Fahrenheit.
Italian Meat Balls – Soak spaghetti (whole wheat) and cook until tender, about 2 cups,
2 cups nut meat loaf, ½ cup onions, ½ cup chopped celery,  cup hot peppers, or to
flavor. Mix ingredients, after adding Spanish sauce. Form in balls, bake in pan and serve
with Spanish sauce.
Mock Halibut Cutlets with Tartar Sauce – Cook 2 cups lima beans until soft, braise
onions and bell peppers together with flavoring. Mix ingredients, dip in breadcrumbs and
bake after molding in any form desired. Serve with tartar sauce made without vinegar or

pickles and springs of parsley.

Fasting