LESSON XXVI.

Dear Friends:
After careful and intelligent study of the foregoing lessons, you now know that disease
consists  of  an  unknown,  decayed  and  fermented  mass  of  matter  in  the  human  body,
decades old—especially in the intestines and colon. You likewise know how unwise and
ignorant it is to think that knowing what to eat is, alone, a complete diet of healing.
None of the recognized authorities know the tremendous importance of a thorough and
deep cleansing of the human “cesspool”. All are more or less “fooled” by Nature when
they  advise  eating  of  fruits,  with  stomach  and  intestines  clogged  up  by  mucus  and
decomposed protein foods, eaten from childhood on.
You  have  been  taught  the  result;  should  these  poison—cyanide  of  potassium—be
dissolved  too  rapidly  and  permitted  to  enter  the  circulation,  severe  sensations—even
death—may occur and man's natural food, oranges, grapes, dates, etc., are blamed!
My teachings clearly prove that this hitherto unexplained ignorance regarding fruit
diet is the “stumbling block” for all other food research experts, who have made personal
experimental tests. Thousands of times have I heard the same cry—even from young and
supposedly healthy persons—“I became weak”! And all experts with the exception of
myself say, “Yes, you require more protein; at least eat nuts”.
During  my  personal  tests,  involving  this  same  problem,  I  tried  to  overcome  this
“stumbling-block”  hundreds  of  times.  After  a  two-years'  cure,  in  Italy,  of  Bright's
disease with consumptive tendency, by fasting and strict living on a mucusless diet, I ate
two pounds of the sweetest grapes and drank half a gallon of fresh, sweet grape juice,
made from the best and most wonderful grapes grown there. Almost immediately I felt
as though I were going to die! A terrible sensation overcame me, palpitation of the heart,
extreme dizziness that forced me to lie down and I was seized with severe pains in the
stomach  and  intestines. After  ten  minutes  the  great  event  occurred-a  mucus  foaming
diarrhea  and  vomiting  of  grape  juice  mixed  with  acid-smelling  mucus  and  then  the
greatest event of all! I felt so wonderfully well and strong that I at once performed the
knee-bending and arm-stretching exercises 326 times consecutively. All obstructions had
been removed!
For the first time in history I have shown what man was when be lived without “fired”
foods-during the prehistoric times (called Paradise) eating fruits, the “bread of heaven”.
For the first time in human history this “demon” in the tragedy of human life has been
shown—and  how  he can and must  be  eliminated—before  man  can  again  ascend  to  a
Paradisiacal health, happiness, immunity from disease and “God-like” being.
If  the  Garden  of  Eden—heaven  on  earth—ever  existed  it  must  have  been  a  “fruit
orchard”. For thousands of years, through a wrong civilization, man has been tricked into
unconscious suicide, reduced to slavery, to product wrong food, “earning his bread by the
sweat of his brow”. Unnatural foods cause sickness and death.

“Peace on Earth” happiness and righteousness as yet remain a foolish dream. During
thousands  of  years,  God,  Paradise,  Heaven—Sin,  Devil,  Hell—seldom  found  an
interpretation  that  a  clear,  reasoning  mind  would  willingly  accept.  The  average
unfortunate fellowman thinks of God as a good and forgiving Father who will allow him
to enter Paradise in another world—unpunished for any violations of His laws in Nature.
I have proven for the first time in history that the diet of Paradise is not only possible
—good  enough  for  a  degenerate  mankind,  such  as  we  now  are—but  that  it  is  the
Unconditional  Necessity  and  the  first  step  to  real  salvation  and  redemption  from  the
misery of life. That it is a needed key to the lost Paradise where disease, worry and
sorrow—hate, fighting and murder were unknown, and where there was no death, from
unnatural causes at least.
“Man is what he eats” is a philosopher's greatest and truest statement.
You must now see why civilization, all religion, all philosophy, with their tremendous
sacrifice  of  work,  time,  money,  energy,  is  and  has  been  part  guesswork.  The  magic
formula for “Heaven on Earth”—of the Paradise—must read like this:
“Eat your way into Paradise physically.” But you cannot pass the gate, watched over
by  the  angel  with  the  flaming  sword,  until  you  have  gone  through  the  purgatory
(cleansing fire) of fasting and diet of healing—a cleansing, a physiological purifying, by
the “Flame of Life” in your own body! During thousands of years no one has escaped the
struggle of death caused by an unnatural life, and you will have to face it some day.
But you, I and others who have learned this greatest and most important truth of life,
are the only ones in existence today who are in fact, and not by mind only, out of the
road of darkness and unconscious suicide, and into the light of the new civilization—the
light of a physical regeneration—as the Foundation of Mental and Spiritual Revelation-
like Progress to the light of a superior, that is to say, a spiritual world.
This will give an outline of the serious nature of my work—and the necessity for your
help in carrying it through as the greatest deed you can perform—upon which depends
not only your future destiny, but that of a suffering, unhappy mankind—on the verge of a
physical and mental collapse.
ARNOLD EHRET.

OTHER BOOKS BY ARNOLD EHRET
RATIONAL FASTING for PHYSICAL MENTAL & SPIRITUAL REJUVENATION
This  thought  provoking  book  by  Prof.  Ehret  has  aided  thousands  to  enjoy  health  through  fasting.  Rational
Fasting also includes, “YOUR ROAD TO REGENERATION” by Prof. Ehret, “MY ROAD TO HEALTH” and
“BUILD YOUR  OWN  ROAD  TO  HEALTH”  by  Teresa  Mitchell,  “INTERNAL  CLEANLINESS”  by  Fred  S.
Hirsch and “THE DEFINITE CURE OF CHRONIC CONSTIPATION” by Prof. Ehret.
THE CAUSE AND CURE OF HUMAN ILLNESS (Kranke Menschen)
Translated  by  Professor  Dr.  Ludwig  Max  Fischer. A  way  to  take  your  health  back  into  your  own  hands. A
solution to man's modern ailments. It was proposed and articulated by a nutritionist, Arnold Ehret, in a book
written 100 years ago.
PAMPHLETS ON EHRET'S TEACHINGS
THUS SPEAKETH THE STOMACH also THE TRAGEDY OF NUTRITION
PHYSICAL FITNESS THRU A SUPERIOR DIET, FASTING AND DIETETICS
OTHER BOOKS OF INTEREST
THE GRAPE CURE by Johanna Brandt.
The  author  offers  her  personal  contribution  toward  the  solution  of  the  Cancer  problem  and  her  personal
experiences in overcoming this dreaded ailment. This book is intended more as a Cancer preventive.
LIVE FOODS by George and Doris Fathman.
A book dedicated to Prof. Ehret's teachings of nature's perfect system of human nutrition. There are 192 recipes
plus meal suggestions for mucusless and mucuslean diets.
For information on the Ehret Health Club, the Club Newsletter or information on any of
our publications please write to:
Ehret Literature Publishing Co., Inc.
P.O. Box 24, Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522-0024
U.S.A.
Please visit our website at www.arnoldehret.org

MEMORANDA