LESSON XXIV.

Motherhood and Eugenics
Motherhood  with  mucusless  diet,  before,  during  and  after  pregnancy  is  the
development  towards  the  Madonna-like,  holy  purity  principally  different  from  the
dangerous so-called “ordinary” childbirth, with its ever-present risk of life, known in our
present civilization.
If the female body is perfectly clean thru this diet, the menstruation disappears. In
scripture it is called by the significant word “purification”, which it in fact is; clean—no
longer polluted by the monthly flow of impure blood and other waste. This is the ideal
condition of an inside purity capable of the “immaculate conception”. When seen in the
light of this truth the entire “Madonna mystery” is easily understood.
Every one of my female patients reported their menses as becoming less and less, then
a two, three and four months' intermission, and finally entirely disappearing, which latter
condition was experienced by those who went thru a perfect cleansing process by this
diet.
Headaches,  toothaches,  vomiting  and  all  other  so-called  “diseases  of  pregnancy”
disappear and painless childbirth, an ample sufficiency of very sweet milk, babies that
never  cry,  babies  who  are  very  differently  “clean”,  as  compared  with  others,  are  the
wonderful facts that I have learned from every woman becoming a mother after having
lived on this diet.
It  is  not  advisable  to  start  a  radical  change  in  diet  during  pregnancy,  or  while
nursing; this should be done at least two or three months before conception.
“Eating for two”, with a special diet is unnecessary if the body is clean. Modern babies
are  overfed,  hence  these  dangerous  childbirth's.  The  only  reasonable  change  is  to
increase the eating of natural sweets such as figs, raisins, dates, grapes, etc.
Feeding the Baby
If mother's milk is found to be insufficient or bad, do not use plain cow's milk; it
should  be  diluted  with  at  least  one-third  to  one-half  water  and  sweetened  with  milk,
sugar or honey. Start feeding the baby as soon as possible a teaspoonful of good fruit
juices (juice from stewed beets is also good), and honey diluted in water between meals.
The baby's craving is sweet, and proves that fruit sugar is the “essence” of all dietetics.
What is considered a well-fed and healthy looking baby, of average normal weight, is
in reality pounds of waste of decayed milk.
Whether the baby is sick or not, as soon as you commence feeding it fruit juices and
stewed mash fruits, you will learn from the elimination that I am correct. The change
must  therefore  be  made  very  carefully.  Babies  and  children  must  go  thru  the  same
cleansing  healing  process,  as  do  adults.  I  believe  that  a  baby  well  nursed  by  good
mother's milk on this diet and without “special” protein foods will grow wonderfully,
and after the weaning period is over could be raised on apples alone.

As stated before, if a change of this kind in the baby's diet is made, they must be
healed  first—whether  sick  or  not—cleansed  from  the  waste  of  their  “latent  disease”.
That is the point that everyone refused to believe, realize or understand.
Natural  sweets  are  necessary  for  the  growing  child  for  building  a  strong  skeleton.
Lime is also important. (See Berg's Tables).
I learned thru the few examples that we had in Europe, that the character, the mind in
general of the growing child, is greatly and beneficially influenced by this diet, with the
progress of the purity of the body. The “troubles” of raising children from which you can
be saved are enormous. No more children's disease!
Thousands  of  pregnant  mothers,  innocently  thru  overeating,  half  kill  their  children
before they are born. Here then is the only correct way to fight infantile mortality. There
is no higher moral duty of any kind than to produce a perfect being.
Eugenics of a Diseaseless, Superior Race
Using a plant as a comparison, “motherhood” can be said to represent the QUALITY of
the soil; “fatherhood” represents the quality of the seed—of the germ.
A relatively poor, almost barren soil but a good quality of seed produces a fairly good
plant, but a defective seed, even though planted in the best of soil, NOTHING.
Breeders  of  animals,  especially  horse  breeders,  know  that  the  quality  of  a
thoroughbred  father  goes  thru  endless  generations,  even  spanning  over  a  chain  of
“indifferent” mothers. This is why inheritance of good and bad qualities (tuberculosis for
instance) skips a whole generation.
As in every respect of life this problem is different also, and, of course, is different in
the  case  of  a  clean  body  on  natural  diet.  Medical  doctors  and  Naturopaths  alike  will
hardly believe at all in the new principles and arguments, which I have brought out, and
postulated in this work. They reason and figure with the facts and experiences of the
filthy body living on the unnatural diet of civilization.
One  cannot  reason  about  colors  with  a  man  born  blind.  You  cannot  use  the  old
arguments and the old physiology to gainsay my statements.
Until you have personally experienced on your own body the truth of my teachings,
you will have to accept and believe the new ones.
Realize, please, what this means—SUPERIOR FASTINGS—as they were taken by the
prophets of old.
During a period covering some decades, and even partly today, the science of eugenics
believed in the necessity of outside breeding. They consider outside breeding an absolute
necessity for animals and the human race based on the bad results, which accrued from
the inbreeding of humans.
It is nothing less than the problem of the future of the American Nation—mixing races
or  inbreeding?  The  Jewish  race  is  the  answer,  the  only  example  in  existence  that
inbreeding is natural and perfect. Marriage of close relationship fails simply because we
have  degenerated  too  far,  in  comparison  with  the  people  of  their  ancestor Abraham.

Outside breeding is a “stimulation” with an apparently good result, lasting only for one
or two generations and then, in general, the family dies out.
The European royal family kept their genealogical tree clean, securing good results
only as long as they did not live in modern luxury. The families of noblemen are rapidly
disappearing because they fail to continue the generation of males. The luxurious diet of
today  instead  of  the  old-fashioned  simplicity  of  centuries  ago  is  to  blame.  Former
generations  lived  as  farmers  (a  more  natural  life).  Today  they  are  the  typical  “high
livers” in modern Sodoms; no wonder an expiring degeneration is the result!
Predetermination of Sex
What I will endeavor to show here is how to produce a genius, and this will prove at
the same time that the predetermination of the sex is based on a higher principle than on
the time of conception only.
Again and again, diet is everything; man is what he eats! Are not all geniuses, great
men, inventors, the greatest artists of every kind, born of poor parentage?
Why did the birth of boy babies increase during the European war? They will become
good and intelligent men. Restriction in diet and restriction in sexual intercourse, that is
all! The cleaner the body of both parents, the less frequent the intercourse, the smaller
the  quantity  of  good  food,  the  greater  the  love  vibrations  become,  and  with  these
conditions the better the chance for a genius, and that is always a boy. The most ideal
example of this truth, and it is said to be an historical fact, is this:
During the black plague centuries ago, a number of young people took refuge together
in a house in the neighborhood of Florence, Italy. For weeks they had nothing to eat and
then, of course, only sparsely. They became married and generated the family of the
Medici,  which  produced  the  greatest  statesmen,  artists  and  scientists  of  every  kind
known in the history of western civilization.
We  know  that  vitality  vibrates  thru  a  waste-free  body  more  perfectly  than  one
encumbered with food, that is the superior fast with its indescribable conditions. Yet
more difficult of description are love vibrations—when man ascends to a God-like being,
as  he  must  have  been  in  prehistoric  times  on  the  divine  diet.  The  magnetic  sex
emanations become so wonderful that love combined with gluttony appears as a crime.
For the young couple to fast on their wedding day is a Jewish religious custom, but it
is only a reminder of a hygienic law of that great statesman Moses—to generate geniuses
thru superior waves of love thru the infinite.
It  is  the  principle  by  which  the  male  stock,  when  living  on  “clean”  food  has  the
opportunity to generate a diseaseless, superior one.
Everyone who travels a little further upwards on the road towards the “paradise-like”
conditions of man will soon sense this truth. Man was once a higher, superior kind of
being, not a species of the monkey family! We are only a shade of the original man,
caused thru our degeneration, but you may yet experience what cannot be described, that
this kind of eugenics is the fundamental truth of evolution into “Heaven on Earth”!

The Enforcement of Elimination by
Physical Adjustments