LESSON XIX.

As long as the waste is in the circulation you feel miserable during a fast; as soon as it
is thru the kidneys you feel fine. Two or three days later and the same process repeats
itself. It must now be clear to you why conditions change so often during a fast; it must
now be clear to you why it is possible for you to feel unusually better and stronger on the
twentieth fast day than on the fifth, for instance.
But this entire cleansing work, thru continued contracting of the tissues (becoming
lean) must be done by, and with the original old blood composition of the patient, and
consequently a long fast, especially a too long fast, may become in fact a crime if the
sick organism is too greatly clogged up by waste. Fasters who died from too long a fast
did not die from lack of food, but actually suffocated in and with their own waste. I made
this statement years ago. More clearly expressed: The immediate cause of death is not a
poverty  of  the  blood  in  vital  substances,  but  from  too  much  obstruction.  “O”
(obstruction) becomes as great as or even greater than “P” (air-pressure) and the body
mechanism is at its “death point”.
I gave all of my festers lemonade with a trace of honey or brown sugar for loosening
and  thinning  the  mucus  in  the  circulation.  Lemon  juice  and  fruit  acids  of  all  kinds
neutralize  the  stickiness  of  mucus  and  pus  (acid  paste  cannot  be  used  for  sticking
purposes).
If a patient has ever taken drugs over his entire life period-which become stored up in
the  body  like  the  waste  from  food,  his  condition  might  easily  prove  serious  or  even
dangerous  when  these  poisons  enter  the  circulation,  when  he  takes  his  first  fast.
Palpitation of the heart, headaches, nervousness may set in, and especially insomnia. I
saw patients eliminate drugs they had taken as long as forty years before. Symptoms
such as described above are blamed on the “fast” by everybody, and especially doctors.
How Long Should One Fast?
Nature answers this question in the animal kingdom with a certain cruelty, “fast until
you are either healed or dead”! In my estimation 50 to 60% of the so-called “healthy”
men of today and 80 to 90% of the seriously chronic sick would die from their latent
diseases thru a long fast.
How long one should fast cannot be definitely stated at all, in advance, even in cases
where  the  condition  of  the  patient  is  known.  When  and  how  to  break  the  fast  is
determined  by  noting  carefully how  conditions  change  during  the  fast—you  now
understand that the fast should be broken as soon as you notice that the obstructions are
becoming too great in the circulation, and the blood needs new vital substances to resist
and neutralize the poisons.
Change your ideas regarding the claim “the longer you fast the better the cure”. You
may now readily understand why. Man is the sickest animal on earth; no other animal
has violated the laws of eating as much as man; no other animal eats as wrongly as man.
Here  is  the  point  where  human  intelligence  can  correctly  assist  in  the  self-healing

process  by  the  following  adjustments,  which  embrace  the  Mucusless  Diet  Healing
System:
First Prepare for an easier fast by a gradually changing diet towards a mucusless diet,
and by laxatives and enemas.
Second. Change shorter fasts periodically with some eating days of cleansing, mucus-
poor and mucusless diet.
Third. Be particularly careful if the patient used much drugs; especially if a mercury
or saltpetre, oxide of silver (taken for venereal diseases) have been used, in which case a
long, slowly changing, preparative diet is advisable.
An “expert's” suggestion to fast until the tongue is clean caused many troubles with
“fanatical” festers, and I personally know of one death. You may be surprised when I tell
you that I had to cure patients from the ill effects of too long a fast. The reason will be
clear later.
In spite of the above, every cure, and especially every cure of diet should start with a
two or three-day fast. Every patient can do this without any harm, regardless of how
seriously sick he may be. First a light laxative and then an enema daily, makes it easier
as well as harmless.
How to Break a Fast
The right food after a fast is as important and decisive for proper results as the fast
itself. At the same time, it depends entirely upon the condition of the patient, and very
much upon the length of the fast. You may learn from the results of the two extreme
cases, both of which ended fatally (not from the fast, but from the first wrong meal), just
why this KNOWLEDGE is so important.
A one-sided meat eater, suffering from diabetes, broke his fast, which lasted about a
week by eating dates and died from the effects. A man of over 60 years of age fasted
twenty-eight  days  (too  long);  his  first  meal  of  vegetarian  foods  consisting  mainly  of
boiled  potatoes.  A  necessary  operation  showed  that  the  potatoes  were  kept  in  the
contracted intestines by thick, sticky mucus so strong that a piece had to be cut off, and
the patient died shortly after the operation.
In the first case the terrible poisons loosened in the stomach of this one-sided meat
eater during his fast when mixed with the concentrated fruit sugar of the dates caused at
once so great a fermentation with carbonic acid gases and other poisons that the patient
could not stand the shock. The correct advice would be: First a laxative, later raw and
cooked  starchless  vegetables,  a  piece  of  rough  bran  bread  toast.  Sauerkraut  is  to  be
recommended in such cases. No fruits should be eaten for a long time after fast has been
broken. The patient should have been prepared for the fast by a longer transition diet.
In the second case the patient fasted entirely too long for a man of his age without
proper preparation. Hot compresses on the abdomen, high enemas might have helped the
elimination, together with a strong eliminative laxative and then starchless, mostly raw,
vegetables; no fruits for a considerable time.
Thru these two very instructive examples you may see how individually different the

advice must be, and how wrong it is to make up general suggestions concerning how to
break a fast.

Fasting (Continued)