LESSON XXI.

You have just read in Lesson 20 about patients eating several times during the night in
order to sleep again. You have been taught why this happens. Upon awakening you may
perhaps feel fine, but instead of getting up you remain in bed and fall asleep again, have
a bad dream, and actually feel miserable upon awakening the second time. You can now
understand the exact reason for this.
As soon as you get up and move around, walk or exercise, the body is in an entirely
different condition than during the sleep. The elimination is slowed down, the energy
being used elsewhere.
If eating breakfast is eliminated from your daily menus, you will probably experience
some harmless sensations, such as headaches for the first one or two days, but after that
you  will  feel  much  better,  work  better,  and  enjoy  your  luncheon  better  than  ever.
Hundreds  of  severe  cases  have  been  cured  by  the  “non-breakfast-fast”  alone,  without
important changes in diet; proving that the habit of a full breakfast meal is the worst of
all, and most injurious.
It is advisable and really of great advantage to allow the patient to have the same drink
for breakfast that he is accustomed to; if he craves coffee, let him continue his drink of
coffee,  but absolutely  no  SOLID  food!  Later  on,  replace  the  coffee  with  a  warm
vegetable  juice,  and  still  later  change  to  lemonade.  This  change  should  be  made
gradually for the average mixed eater.
The 24-Hour Fast, or One Meal a Day Plan
As with the breakfast-fast, you can heal more severe cases with the 24-hour fast, or in
cases  of  deep  chronic  encumbrance  and  drugs  it  is  a  careful,  preliminary  step  to  the
necessary longer fasts. The best time to eat is in the afternoon, say, 3 or 4 o'clock P.M.
If the patient is on the mucusless or transition diet, let him eat the fruits first (fruits
should always be eaten first) and after an elapse of 15 or 20 minutes eat the vegetables;
but all should be eaten within an hour so that it is, so to say, one meal.
Fasting When Used in Connection With the
Mucusless Diet Healing System
As I have stated before, I am no longer in favor of long fasts. In fact it may become
criminal to let a patient fast for 30 or 40 days on water—contracting the avenues of
circulation, which are continually filled up more and more with mucus and by dangerous
old drugs and poisons, and at the same time rotten blood from his old “stock”; in fact
actually starving from necessary vital food elements. No one can stand a fast of that kind
without disadvantage, or without harming his vitality.
If fasting is to be used at all, then start at first withthe non-breakfast plan; then follow
with the 24-hour fast for a while; then gradually increase up to 3, 4 or 5-day fasts, eating
between  fasts  for  1,  2,  3  or  4  days  a  mucusless  diet,  combined  individually  as  an
elimination  adjustment,  and  at  the  same  time  supplying  and  rebuilding  the  body

continually  with  and  by  the  best  elements  contained  in  and  found  only  in  mucusless
foods.
Thru such an intermittent fast the blood is gradually improved, regenerated, can more
easily stand the poisons and waste, and is able at the same time to dissolve and eliminate
“disease deposits” from the deepest tissues  of  the  body;  deposits  that  no  doctor  ever
dreamed existed, and that no other method of healing has ever discovered or can ever
remove.
This, then, is the Mucusless Diet Healing System, with fasting an essential part of it.
Fasting in Cases of Acute Disease
“Hunger Cures—Wonder Cures” was the title of the first fasting book I ever read. It
gave the experiences of a country doctor, in which he said, “No feverish, acute disease
must nor can end with death if Nature's instinctive command, to stop eating thru lack of
appetite, is followed”.
It  is  insanity  to  give  food  to  a  pneumonia  patient  with  a  high  fever,  for  instance.
Having had an unusual contraction of the lung tissues by a “cold”, the pressed-out mucus
goes into the circulation and produces an unusual heat-fever. The human engine, already
at the bursting point thru heat, becomes more heated (feverish) thru partaking of solid
food, meat broth, etc. (good, nourishing foods, so-called).
Air baths taken in the room, enemas, laxatives, cool lemonade would save the lives of
thousands of young men who are now daily permitted to die, the innocent victims of
pneumonia or other acute diseases—due to the stubborn ignorance of doctors and so-
called highly civilized people.
The Superior Fast
Please try and memorize the lesson on Metabolism (Lesson 6) because it is the most
important truth of my new physiology; also Lesson 5, and you will clearly understand
fasting with all its possible sensations.
All experts, excepting myself, believe that you live from your own flesh during a fast.
You know now that what they call Metabolism—“Metabolize your own flesh when you
fast”, is simply the elimination of waste.
The  Indian  “fakir”,  the  greatest  faster  in  the  world  today,  is  nothing  but  skin  and
bones. I learned that the cleaner you are, the easier it is to fast, and the longer you can
stand it. In other words, in a body free from all waste and poisons, and when no solid
foods  are  taken,  the  human  body  functions  for  the  first  time  in  its  life  without
obstructions.  The  elasticity  of  the  entire  tissue  system,  and  of  the  internal  organs,
especially of the spongy lungs, work with an entirely different vibration and efficiency
than ever before, by air alone and without the slightest obstruction. Stated differently:
“V” equals “P” and if you simply supply the “engine” with the necessary water which is
used up, you ascend into a higher state of physical, mental and spiritual conditions. I call
that the “Superior Fast”,
If your blood “stock” is formed from eating the foods I teach, your brain will function
in a manner that will surprise you. Your former life will take on the appearance of a

dream, and for the first time in your existence your consciousness awakens to a real-self-
consciousness.
Your mind, your thinking, your ideals, your aspirations and your philosophy changes
fundamentally in such a way as to beggar description.
Your soul will shout for joy and triumph over all misery of life, leaving it all behind
you. For the first time you will feel a vibration of vitality through your body (like a
slight electric current) that shakes you delightfully.
You  will  learn  and  realize  that  fasting  and  superior  fasting  (and  not  volumes  of
psychology and philosophy) is the real and only key to a superior life; to the revelation
of a superior world, and to the spiritual world.

Destructive Diet of Civilization
and the Mucusless Diet, the
Natural Food of Man