LESSON XVIII.

It  is  significant  for  our  time  of  degeneration  that  fasting,  by  which  I  mean  living
without solid and liquid food, is still a problem as a healing factor for the average man,
as well as for the orthodox medical doctor. Even Naturopathy required a few decades in
its development to take up Nature's only, universal and omnipotent “remedy” of healing.
It is further significant that fasting is still considered as a “special” kind of cure, and due
to some truly “marvelous” results here and there, it has quite recently become a world-
wide  fad.  Some  expert  Nature-cure  advocators  plan  out  general  “prescriptions”  of
fasting, and how to break a fast regardless of your condition or the cause from which you
are a sufferer.
On  the  other  hand,  fasting  is  so  feared  and  misrepresented  that  the  average  man
actually considers you a fool if you miss a few meals when sick, thinking you will starve
to death, when in reality you are being cured. The medical doctor in general endorses
and, in fact, teaches such foolish beliefs regarding Nature's only foundational law of all
healing  and  “curing”.  He  fails  to  understand  the  difference  between  fasting  and
starvation.
Whatever  has  been  designed  and  formulated  to  eliminate  the  disease  matters  and
designed as “natural treatments” without having at least some restriction or change in
diet, or fasting, is a fundamental disregard of the truth concerning the cause of disease.
Have you ever thought what the lack of appetite means when sick? And that animals
have no doctors, and no drug stores, and no sanitariums, and no machinery to heal them?
Nature demonstrates and teaches by that example that there is only one disease and that
one is caused thru eating and, therefore, every disease whatsoever that may be named by
man, is and can be healed by one “remedy” only—by doing the direct opposite of the
cause—by the compensation of the wrong—i.e., reducing the quantity of food or fasting.
The reason so many, especially long, fasting cures have failed and continue to fail is due
to the ignorance which still exists regarding what is going on in the body during a fast,
an ignorance still existing even in the minds of Naturopaths and fasting experts up to the
present date.
I  dare  say  there  may  not  be  another  man  in  history  who  has  studied,  investigated,
tested and experimented on fasting as much as I did. There is no other expert at present,
as far as I know, who conducted so many fasting cures on the most severe cases, as I did.
I  opened  the  first  special  sanitarium  in  the  world  for  fasting,  combined  with  the
Mucusless Diet, and fasting is an essential part of the Mucusless Diet Healing System. I
have  likewise  made  four  public  scientific  tests  of  fasting  of  21,  24,  32  and  49  days,
respectively, as a demonstration. The latter test is the world's record of a fast conducted
under a strict scientific supervision of government officials.
You may therefore believe me when I teach something new and instructive about what
actually happens in the body during a fast. You learned in Lesson 5 that the body must
first be considered as a machine, a mechanism made of rubber-like material which has
been over-expanded during its entire life thru overeating. Therefore, the functioning of

the organism is continually obstructed by an unnatural over-pressure of the blood and on
the tissues. As soon as you stop eating, this over-pressure is rapidly relieved, the avenues
of circulation contract, the blood becomes more concentrated and the superfluous water
is eliminated. This goes on for the first few days and you may even feel fine, but then the
obstructions  of  the  circulation  become  greater  because  the  diameter  of  the  avenues
becomes smaller and the blood must circulate thru many parts of the body, especially in
the tissues, at and around the symptom, against sticky mucus pressed-out and dissolved
from the inside walls; in other words, the blood stream must overcome, dissolve and
carry with itself mucus and poisons for elimination thru the kidneys.
When you fast you eliminate first and at once the primary obstructions of wrong and
too much eating. This results in your feeling relatively good, or possibly even better than
when eating, but, as previously explained, you bring new, secondary obstructions from
your own waste in the circulation and you feel miserable. You and everyone else blame
the lack of food. The next day you can notice with certainty mucus in the urine and when
the quantity of waste, taken in the circulation, is eliminated, you will undoubtedly feel
fine, even stronger than ever before. So it is a well known fact that a faster can feel better
and is actually stronger on the twentieth day than on the fifth or sixth day, certainly a
tremendous  proof  that vitality does not depend primarily on food, but rather from an
obstructed circulation. (See Lesson 5). The smaller the amount of “O” (obstruction) the
greater “P” (air-pressure) and therefore “V” (vitality).
Thru  the  above  enlightening  explanation  you  see  that  fasting  is;  first,  a  negative
proposition to relieve the body from direct obstructions of solid, most unnatural foods;
second, that it is a mechanical process of elimination by contracting tissues pressing out
mucus, causing friction and obstruction in the circulation.
The following are examples of vitality from “P”, Power, air-pressure alone:
One  of  my  first  fasters,  a  relatively  healthy  vegetarian,  walked  45  miles  in  the
mountains on his 24th fast day.
A friend of fifteen years younger and myself walked 56 HOURS CONTINUALLY after a
ten-day fast.
A  German  physician,  a  specialist  in  fasting  cures,  published  a  pamphlet  entitled,
“Fasting, the Increase of Vitality”. He learned the same fact that I did, but he does not
know why and how, and vitality therefore remained mysterious for him.
If you drink only water during a fast, the human mechanism cleanses itself, the same
as though you would press out a dirty watery sponge, but the dirt in this instance is sticky
mucus, and in many cases pus and drugs, which must pass thru the circulation until it is
so  thoroughly  dissolved  that  it  can  pass  thru  the  fine  structure  of  the  “physiological
sieve” called kidneys.

Fasting (Continued)