LESSON XXII.

You have now learned that total abstinence from food—FASTING—is the best and
most effective method  of  healing.  This  proves  with  logical  consequence  how  small  a
quantity is in fact necessary to sustain life and justifies my oft-repeated statement: “The
wonder is that we live in spite of our excessive eating, in spite of our eating such wrong,
destructive foods”. In this light of truth it almost appears ridiculous to note the endless
fight  and  confusion  regarding  dietetics,  protein,  mineral  salts,  vitamins,  etc.  The
potential food value is not the first question at all. You cannot heal drunkenness by water
without  stopping  the  intake  of  alcohol.  You  cannot  heal  disease  thru  any  kind  of
adjustments, treatments or diets, without stopping the eating of the foods which produce
disease, the latter being 90% of the present day destructive diet of civilization.
I named the natural food of man, fruits and starchless greenleaf vegetables (as it is
said in Genesis, “fruits and herbs”) “Mucusless Diet”, because mucus is the main and
important and significant substance, while the other, wrong foods, contain, produce and
encumber the human body with the matter of disease.
The entire “teachings” of scientific dietetics, food values, statistics, etc., are useless
and in vain as long as the first step is not taken, and that is to see all foods and their
value from a principally different angle:
1.   How far and how much foods produce and leave disease matter (mucus) in the
body.
2.   Their dissolving, eliminating, healing properties. For this purpose I give you a
special critique of the different foods, wrong foods especially, and you can see
at  once  why  they  are  “destructive”  with  no  positive  food  value  at  all,  but
producing and leaving stored up waste in the body. See Lesson 14 and you will
find that Berg's investigations proved to be the same that I found by intuition,
experimenting and thru experience with myself and some thousands of patients.
MEATS
All are in a decomposing state, producing cadaver poisons, uric acid in the body and
mucus; fats are the worst, even butter is unusable for the human body. No animals eat
fat.
EGGS
Eggs are even worse than meats, because not only have eggs too high protein qualities,
but  they  contain  a  gluey  property  much  worse  than  meat  and  are  therefore  very
constipating, quite more so than meat. Hard boiled eggs are less harmful, because the
gluey qualities are destroyed; the white of eggs makes a very perfect glue.
MILK

Also makes a good glue for painting. Cow's milk is too rich for adults and for babies,
and plainly destructive. A baby's stomach cannot digest what a calf can. If milk must be
used than add at least half water and some milk sugar. Sour milk and buttermilk are less
harmful  and  possess  some  laxative  qualities;  the  gluey  sticky  properties  disappear.
Cottage cheese with stewed fruit (see Lesson 15) is good for transition diet. All other
kinds of cheese are highly acid and are mucus formers.
FATS
All fats are acid forming, even those of vegetable origin, and are not used by the body.
You will continue to like, crave and use them only as long as you can still see mucus in
the  “magic  mirror”.  What  doctors  call  heat  calories  is  caused  by  the  fats  in  friction,
obstruction in the circulation; they constipate the small blood vessels.
CEREALS
Cereals and all flour products form mucus and acid. The worst of all is white flour,
because  it  makes  the  best  paste.  Bran,  graham,  whole  wheat  or  rye  bread  are  less
harmful, because they have lost their sticky properties. When well done or toasted and
well baked they are much less harmful. Raw cereals, if toasted, are to some extent a
mucus broom, but contain stimulants, wrongly believed to be “food value”. Pies made of
rough unbaked dough are, according to my belief, absurd. When eaten with sweets and
acids they are mucus and gas producers the same as French pastry.
LEGUMES
Lentils, dried beans and dried peas are too rich in protein, the same as meat and eggs.
The peanut is a legume also.
POTATOES
A little better than flour products, because they contain more mineral salts (see Berg's
tables), nor do they make a good, sticky paste. Sweet potatoes come close to natural
sweets, but are too rich. Well fried, or crusty, baked like Saratoga chips, but without the
animal grease, sweet potatoes are almost mucusless.
RICE
Is one of the greatest mucus formers and makes an excellent paste. I firmly believe
thru my experience with serious cases of sickness (awful boils, etc.) prevalent among
one-sided  rice  eaters,  that  rice  is  the  foundational  cause  of  leprosy,  that  terrible
pestilence.
NUTS
All nuts are too rich in protein and fat and should be eaten only in winter, and then
only sparingly. Nuts should be chewed together with some dried sweet fruits or honey,
never with juicy fruits, because water and fat do not mix.
With the possible exception of nuts, the above represent about all of the foods which
have to be prepared in some manner for eating; in fact they are tasteless unless specially
prepared. All of these unnatural foods are extremely bitter, and in fact for a normal nose
they possess and offensive odor. The sense organs of man are in a pathological state

embodied in a “pus-like” mucus and waste, the same as the entire system, and being in a
partly  decayed  condition  themselves,  they  find  this  half-rotten  food  palatable.  If  the
tongue is clean from mucus, and the nose for the first time free from dirty filth, both
then become in fact “magic mirrors”, “revelation organs”, we may call them, the bridge
of the sixth sense, that is, to sense the truth. You lose all desire for, and in fact cannot
stand these stimulating spices, especially table salt, any longer. What civilized man calls
good to eat, delicious taste is absurd.
Even  then  you  would  and  could  not  eat  fats  or  animal  foods  without  the  cook's
“preparation”, that is, the art to cover the real taste and odor by spices and dressings. In
fact taste and smell vibrations are so far changed from the normal natural, that the heavy
meat eater does not like the wonderful odor of a ripe banana. He prefers “haut gout”, a
French word meaning “the smell of half-decayed meat”.
No scientific food value tables can convince you of the truth. You must sense it with
your cleansed organs, how wrongly you are fooled into believing that you nourish and
build up health and efficiency by these foods which are in reality destructive, because
they stimulate, or more truthfully, stop the elimination of your old waste until the day of
reckoning comes, when you become “officially” sick.
Paradoxically  but  true,  civilized  men  starve  to  death  thru  ten  times  too  much
overeating of wrong, destructive foods; the “sack” (stomach) of digestion is enlarged and
sunken, prolapsed, which condition dislocates and interferes with the proper functioning
of  the  other  organs.  Its  glands  and  pores  of  the  walls  are  totally  constipated  and  its
elasticity as well as that of the intestines, with its vital function is almost paralyzed. The
abdomen is an abnormally enlarged sack of fatty, watery, dislocated organs thru which
half or even more of the decayed foods of civilization slide, fermenting more and more
into feces such as no animal has, and this is called digestion!
“Natural Food of Man”, is the title of a book by Hereward Carrington.
There are some others by European authors, who prove and show from every point of
view that man has and must have lived in prehistoric times from unfired, natural foods,
fruits and greenleaf vegetables; however, a great philosopher once said: “Whatever must
be first proved is doubtful”. Whoever does not see or sense the truth at once will never
believe it, even if it is proven thousands of times and from every possible angle. Even
experts of fruit diet and raw food advocates have doubts that the degenerated man of
today can live the Paradisiacal life.
It took me a few years of continual testing and experimenting until I was thoroughly
convinced in spite of the fact that I believed it once. Now memorize what I teach in
Lesson 5 and in the lessons on the New Physiology. All others are on the wrong track,
misled by the protein fad as well as thru ignorance of how it looks inside of the body,
what  disease  is,  etc.,  but  especially  obstructive  to  a  recognition  of  the  truth  is  the
ignorance as to what happens in the body if you eat fruits, fast or live on a mucusless
diet. This fact that the interpretation of all and every sensation, which becomes more and
more strange and new, the more and deeper healing process goes on, is based on the Old
Physiology,  and  is  therefore  and  must  be  consequently  wrong.  It  is  and  was  the
“stumbling block” in the enlightenment about drugless healing in the first place, and

advanced  dietetics  in  particular.  The  natural  diet  was  never  systematically  taken  up,
especially  in  combination  with  fasting,  based  on  the  truth  of  my  new  but  correct
physiology. This is absolutely necessary to learn and to understand. If you believe and
know  unshakably  the  truth  of Lesson 5,  as  well  as  the  other  lessons  bearing  on  this
subject, you will never doubt any more that fruits alone, even of but one kind, not only
heal  but  nourish  perfectly  the  human  body,  eliminating  entirely  the  possibility  of
disease.
All others, not knowing these new truths and not possessing the necessary knowledge
contained  only  in  the  MUCUSLESS  DIET  HEALING  SYSTEM,  can  never  secure  a
perfectly clean body and a complete healing as well as possess an understanding of every
situation.
They will never believe in the divine perfectness of the “Bread of Heaven”, as it is
said “The Lord will punish them by blindness”, spiritual blindness, meaning that doubt,
losing faith and belief will return again and again as long as waste and old poisons are
circulating thru the brain for elimination. You are saved from this tragical error, I hope.
The special qualities of fruits, greenleaf vegetables and their perfectness as human
food is plainly shown in Berg's tables.
The more free you become from any kind of waste and poisons, the more you will
sense, feel and believe this greatest of all truths: “That the Paradisiacal diet is not only
sufficient but brings you higher and higher, into physical and mental conditions never
before experienced.”

Sex