



“BOOKS WORTH READING ONCE ARE WORTH READING TWICE! And what is
most important of all—Masterpieces of literature are worth reading a thousand times.”
—Anonymous
THIS DYNAMIC MESSAGE—Prof. Arnold Ehret's “Mucusless Diet Healing System”—
can be truly considered a “master-piece” in its own right! It is a complete, scientific
Health lesson Course, rich in essential health knowledge, and certainly is not to be read
as a storybook! Students have paid as much as $100.00 for these same lessons—when
taught is person by Prof. Arnold  Ehret,  the  originator  of  the  Mucusless  Diet  Healing
System. Ehret taught that it is incumbent upon us to increase our belief in natural living-
beauty, goodness, truth and faith in our fellow man—so that we may be aware of our
divine  origin.  Through  a  denial  of  this  relationship  we  tend  to  induce  the  growth  of
illness and disease.
Anything  worth-while—such  as  vibrant  vitality  with  abundant  good  health,  to  be
acquired  requires  FAITH  and  DETERMINATION—plus  WILL-POWER!  And  since
work is the medicine of the soul, indulge in the pleasure of doing the necessary for the
maintenance of HEALTH!
Broaden your health knowledge! It is your very life without which you would amount to
little. Follow in all sincerity the health teachings of Prof. Arnold Ehret, this long to be
remembered Disciple of Health, which will be found in this book!
Fred S. Hirsch, Publisher
Note: Fred Hirsch was an associate of Ehret. He was with Ehret when he died in 1922
from a fall on a slippery curb in Los Angeles, as he was leaving one of his lectures. Fred
died in 1979.
 
 

A SCIENTIFIC METHOD OF
EATING YOUR WAY TO HEALTH
A R N O L D
E H R E T'S
Mucusless-Diet
Healing System
BY
PROF. ARNOLD EHRET
A Complete Course for Those Who Desire
to Learn How to Control Their Health
PUBLISHED BY
EHRET LITERATURE PUBLISHING CO., INC. 
DOBBS FERRY, NY 10522-0024

 
 
Ehret Literature Publishing Co., Inc.
Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522-0024
Twenty-Second Edition
Printed in U.S.A.
Copyright © 1953, 1981, 1983, 1994
by the Ehret Literature Publishing Co., Inc.
Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522-0024
All rights reserved, including the rights
to reproduce this book or portions
thereof in any form.
This book is an AUTHENTIC Copy
Of the ORIGINAL version of
Prof. Arnold Ehret's
Mucusless Diet Healing System
ISBN: 978-1-844772-00-9

CONTEMPORARY INSIGHTS TO PROFESSOR EHRET
By David Fastiggi
Author
The End of Disease
What is the fundamental course of disease? Why is this time of heightened scientific
medical advancement in degenerative disease so prevalent? Have we accepted a state of
existence  as  normal,  when  in  fact  so  much  more  is  within  reach?  Are  we  living  a
compromised life? These are serious questions we need to ask, in order to embark upon
the  road  which  truly  leads  to  understanding  of  the  central  cause  of  disease  and  it's
prevention.
At the present time cardiovascular disease claims more lives than all other causes of
death combined. Over twenty five million are affected with Arthritis. Diabetes claims
over five million and ranks third as a cause of blindness in this country. Cancer has
become so very wide spread despite the so called war on cancer. The field of scientific
medical thought is struggling to resolve these problems.
In  the  past  ten  years  the  medical  community  has  understood  the  basics  of  diet  in
relationship to disease and prevention. Effort is being made but, the lax focus and the
weak educational effort is an issue of contention. Why? Because Professor Arnold Ehret
as  well  as  others  have  been  at  least  suggesting  the  role  of  diet  and  disease  for  one
hundred years. Why does it take so long for a response when millions are suffering?
Have  you  been  watching  the  advertisements  for  milk  and  beef  lately?  Industry  is
panicking in the face of the growing awareness of the value of a vegetarian diet. So why
the  contention?  Why  are  so  many  thousands  leaving  the  country  to  seek  alternative
medical treatment for cancer?
In the course of forty years you consume about 42,000 meals. Is it not responsible that
they may have some effect on the human organism? Diet is the basis of blood formation
and the quality of blood is the river of life for your cells. The body is not inert to a
response. The failing health of a person has a link to somewhere.
Professor  Arnold  Ehret  one  hundred  years  ago  taught  through  his  common  sense
reasoning the importance of diet in the cause of disease, its prevention and treatment.
Additionally he offered a glimpse into the possible true state of health, a standard far
higher than believed today in traditional health medical science.
What is it that is guiding man? Progress in technology, to a more comfortable life?
But without the guidelines of natural law what are the trade offs? Air pollution, water
pollution, dumping of toxic waste, and what do we do with radioactive waste? Where
does conscience enter into this process? Professor Ehret was a man of concern for the
morality  and  sacredness  of  life.  His  effort  on  Earth  was  to  educate  people  in  the
relationship between natural law, health and a respect of all life.
Professor Ehret's proclamation of the internal uncleanliness of the human organism is
caused  in  part  by  devitalized,  demineralized,  refined,  chemically  filled  fake  foods  of
modern  civilization.  Autopsies  clearly  show  through  arterial  plaque  and  intestinal

retained waste that the body is in a state of uncleanliness. The foul odor of the bowels
and bad breath are indicators of this impurity.
The field of science is essential. Biochemistry, physiology, nutrition, etc. enables us to
understand  details  of  molecular  function,  and  the  chemistry  behind  the  function  of
systems and organs. Pathways e.g.; Krebs Cycle, bring us to the inner world of cellular
chemistry. This is only half the story however.
Natural law is essential to understand if we are to build a world without disease. The
understanding of natural law is the spiritual, moral, and purposeful force & meaning
behind  something.  Without  this,  science  is  like  sailing  without  a  compass.  We  have
come to realize that in some way or another all things are connected together. As we cut
down rainforests and pollute the air, we understand that it's our own survival at stake.
The Earth is our source of biological life. Arnold Ehret realized this and clearly taught
the direct relationship between the foods of the earth (the right kinds) and health. His
personal validation of his teachings as well as countless others is an outstanding feature
of this man. So many teachers do not practice their own words. It is true that word &
deed  creates  a  man  of  substance.  Truthful  words  and  truthful  deeds  created  a  bright
memorable person, Arnold Ehret.
While science is advancing we learn evermore clearly the wisdom of nature. Today,
science being far more developed than one hundred years ago, is no reason to stumble
over some of the less clear explanations, concepts or science of Prof. Ehret's era. The
essence is this, we must eat right, we must purify our lives and know the Principles that
govern nature, of which mankind is included.
The writings of Arnold Ehret will move your soul. They will cause you to think and
wonder about life in a new way. The laws of nature are unchanging, and thus the insights
of this great man are timeless, and so very much needed for a troubled world.

Contents
Frontispiece – PROF. ARNOLD EHRET
Contents
Alphabetical Index
Publishers' Note
Introduction by F.S. Hirsch
Biographical Sketch of Prof. Arnold Ehret
Lesson I.General Introductory Principles
Lesson II.Latent, Acute and Chronic Diseases No Longer a Mystery
Lesson III.The Diagnosis
Lesson IV.The Diagnosis (Continued)
Lesson III, IV.The Magic Mirror
Lesson V.The Formula of Life
Lesson VI.The New Physiology
Lesson VII.The New Physiology (Continued)
Lesson VIII.The New Physiology (Continued)
Lesson IX.The New Physiology (Continued)
Lesson X.
Critique of All Other Healing Systems and Unbiased,
Unprejudiced Reviews
Lesson XI.Confusion in Dietetics
Lesson XII.Confusion in Dietetics (Continued)
Lesson XIII.Confusion in Dietetics (Continued)
Lesson XIV.Ragnar Berg's Tables
Lesson XV.Transition Diet
Lesson XVI.Transition Diet (Continued)

Lesson XVII.Vegetarian Recipes
Lesson XVIII.Fasting
Lesson XIX.Fasting (Continued)
Lesson XX.Fasting (Continued)
Lesson XXI.Fasting (Continued)
Lesson XXII.
Destructive Diet of Civilization and the Mucusless Diet, the
Natural Food of Man
Lesson XXIII.Sex
Lesson XXIV.Sex (Continued)
Lesson XXV.The Enforcement of Elimination by Physical Adjustments
Lesson XXVI.A Message to Ehretists

Alphabetical Index
Albumen
Baby Feeding
Baths, Air & Sun
Baths, Internal, Water
Berg, Ragnar, Tables of Food Chemistry
Blood Building
Blood Circulation
Blood Composition
Boils
Catani, Dr
Cereals
Chancre
Childbirth
Chiropractics
Christian Science
Colds
Constipation
Consumption
Critique of Other Systems
Densmore, Dr
Diabetes
Diagnosis
Dietetical Treatment
Dietetics, Confusion in
Diseases, Bright's
Diseases, Ear & Eye
Diseases, Latent, Acute & Chronic
Diseases, Liver & Kidney
Diseases, Mental
Diseases, Sex
Diseases, Venereal
Divine Healing
Drinking
Drugless Healing
Eggs
Elimination
Enemas
Eugenics
Exercise
Fasting
Fasting Drinks
Fast, Superior
Fats
Fletcher, Horace
Food Chemistry
Food Values
Foods, Right

Geniuses
Goiter
Gonorrhea
Gout & Rheumatism
Graham, Dr
Haigh, Dr
Impotence
Indigestion
Influenza
Lahmann, Dr
Laxatives
Legumes
Leukorrhea
Lungs
Magic Mirror
Massage
Meats
Medicine
Medici Family
Menstruation
Mental Treatments
Menus
Metabolism
Milk
Milk Diet
Mineral Salts
Motherhood
Mucus-lean Diet
Mucusless Diet
New Physiology
Nuts
Obstruction “O”
Physical Treatment
Pneumonia
Potatoes
Protein Foods
Power “P”
Recipes
Rheumatism & Gout
Rice
Schroth Cure
Sex
Stammering
Sterility
Stomach Trouble
Stricture
Syphilis

Toothache
Transition Diet
“V” equal “P” minus “O”
Vitality “V”
Womb, Falling of

PUBLISHER'S NOTE
In  1922  Professor Arnold  Ehret  completed  his  now  world  famous  Mucusless  Diet
Healing System Lesson Course. It was his publishers' intention, at that time, to avoid the
exercising of their editorial function as far as possible and then only when the demands
of clarity made it absolutely necessary. Since Professor Ehret's accidental death, various
medical discoveries have received considerable publicity and prominence about which
Ehret certainly would have commented. Examples of these discoveries are: the so-called
“wonder drugs”, concentrated or synthetic vitamins, concentrated minerals, sulfa drugs,
antibiotics and the antihistamines.
Another example is the much heralded, “advances” made in horticulture through the
introduction of chemical fertilizers and poisonous chemical sprays which have enabled
the farmer to double, and even treble, his farm crop. Gradual recognition of the serious
effects and the injurious results to the human body produced by these foods is becoming
more  commonplace.  While  it  is  true  man  continues  to  exist  and  will  not  be  entirely
destroyed, we must recognize the limits of the human ability of endurance. Our goal
should be optimum health and long life free of disease.
In the interest of bringing Professor Ehret's great work up to date, we are, therefore,
presenting it in a new and revised edition.
In  mentioning  these  discoveries,  the  publishers  feel  they  are  making  a  logical
contribution to the book. However, it should be emphatically stated that Professor Ehret
would  not  have  been  “sold”  on  any  discovery  that  ignored  the  basic  essential  of  his
philosophy—that Nature  alone  is  the  primary  healer!  The  fact  that  most  so-called
“cures”  have  retained  only  temporary  popularity  and  have  already  been  the  target  of
contradictory claims, and even condemnation by recognized medical authorities, would
tend to substantiate Professor Ehret's viewpoint.
Professor  Ehret  studied  extensively  in  Europe  in  world  renowned,  recognized
universities and attained a brilliant record in various field of science while a student.
Although  he  acquired  considerable  proficiency  in  a  number  of  languages  including
German, French and Italian, his English was self-taught after his arrival in the United
States.  Despite  the  language's  difficulty  he  was  soon  able  to  express  himself
exceptionally well, as evidenced by his many treatises written in English. Because of a
natural desire to preserve the sincerity and vigor of his presentation his publishers feel
reluctant to edit his work if it could possibly be avoided. In consideration of these facts
the  reader  and  student  will,  undoubtedly,  be  greatly  impressed  by  the  simplicity  and
clarity of the exposition of his subject.
 
Fred S. Hirsch
Publisher

Introduction
By FRED S.HIRSCH, D.N.S.
Professor  Arnold  Ehret,  Originator  and  Teacher  of  the  Mucusless-Diet  Healing
System, was born July 25, 1866. On October 9, 1922, while still in the very prime of life,
enjoying a superior state of health known to but few men of present day civilization, he
met with an unfortunate accident, suffering a basal fracture of the skull which caused
almost  instant  death.  It  was  an  unusually  wet,  foggy  night,  with  visibility  practically
“nil”!  The  “oil-soaked”,  streets  and  sidewalks  became  extremely  slippery,  when  wet!
The fatal accident occurred on a “side-walk-drive-in” to a public garage! He evidently
slipped on the “oil-soaked” driveway, and in falling backwards, he landed on the back of
his  head  with  sufficient  force  to  cause  a  “basal  fracture  of  the  skull”!  He  was
immediately taken to a “branch office” of the Los Angeles Receiving Hospital and the
medical doctor in charge pronounced him dead upon arrival. An autopsy was requested
and  performed  by  the  Los Angeles  County  Coroner's  office,  and  cause  of  death  was
verified by them as having resulted from a “basal fracture of the skull”. If further details
are  desired  write  the  Los  Angeles  County  Recorder's  Office,  Hall  of  Records,  Los
Angeles, California.
He was destined from early manhood to fulfill the humanitarian mission of physician.
Suffering from a sickness pronounced incurable by eminent physicians of that day, and
with a sentence of death staring him in the face, it only served to awaken the indomitable
spirit that was later proven to be the outstanding characteristic of this remarkable man,
and his resolution to cure himself resulted so successfully that he was practically forced
by unfortunate fellow sufferers to aid them to regain their health.
One might state that even by inheritance Professor Ehret should rightfully become a
physician,  for  his  father  was  a  veterinarian  and  so  successful  was  he  in  this  field  of
healing that neighbors often sought his aid for their personal ailments. His grandfather
was also a physician, and fate decreed that Arnold Ehret was to follow in their footsteps.
The vast knowledge of health subjects shown in the following lessons was gained by
him  through  actual  contact  with  thousands  of  sufferers  who  became  healed  at  his
Switzerland sanitarium, most of them from so-called incurable ailments. His clearness of
expression,  the  forceful,  logical  array  of  acts  in  his  easily  recognizable,  convincing
manner,  is  sufficient  proof  that  his  mind  was  not  obstructed  by  any  mechanical
disturbances. His work was always his ideal. No thoughts of any monetary consideration
were uppermost in his mind for his wants were exceptionally few. Here was a Master
actually  practicing  what  he  preached,  so  that  his  extremely  frugal  method  of  living
caused him no financial worry. Fearless in speech and writing and recognizing in Nature
his final Judge. Arnold Ehret moved among men, distinctly separate from the majority,
yet bearing only good will and love for his fellow man. To know him was to honor and
respect him—to become intimately acquainted was to love him.
The essence of his healing knowledge is contained in his “Mucusless Diet Healing
System”, and while condensed to a considerable degree the work is thorough in every
respect. The hitherto “veil of mystery” is lifted in the characteristically clear and concise
manner  of  Professor  Ehret!  Simplicity  is  the  keynote  of  all  of  his  teachings,  for  he

continually  reminded  his  students  that  “whatever  is  not  simple,  easy  to  understand,
cannot be the truth”! All disease is known to originate from one source, making the name
of  specific  ailments  unnecessary.  Recognizing  a  diseased  condition  and  knowing  the
proper method of eliminating the condition is by far more essential than a knowledge of
its scientific, technical name.
In  these  lessons  a  revolutionary,  entirely  new  scientific  physiology  is  given  to  the
world. For example, “our lungs and not the heart, as erroneously taught, is the pump”, is
proven by undeniable facts. The physical, mental and even spiritual phases of a natural
life  are  plainly  and  understandingly  explained  to  the  student.  Our  mind  and  mental
condition  influence  the  body,  just  as  the  body  influences  the  mind  and  a  clean,  pure
blood stream is therefore absolutely essential for clean, pure thoughts.
When sick, it is difficult for one to pray the prayer of faith. Self sympathy leads the
sick one to mentally question the fairness of a divine omnipotence for being singled out
among  thousands  of  other  sinners,  some  of  whom  are  personally  known  to  be  much
greater “violators of man-made laws” recognized by the church as sins and yet permitted
to go unpunished by an avenging God. The sins against Nature are inexcusable and the
inevitable law of compensation must be met by everyone. No pleading of “ignorance” is
acceptable  to  Nature,  a  discontinuance  of  the  wrong  habits  is  the  only  method  of
expiation!  It  is  extremely  difficult  to  concentrate  when  suffering  pain,  hence  the
necessity for re-educating your mind and brain while enjoying good health, rather than
waiting  until  you  become  ill. You  must  learn  how  to  operate  the  law  of  good  health
constructively so that you may be prepared to face the unexpected foe, prepared for any
emergency.
We need health and must have it in order to make the most of life here and now. The
Bible tells us “according to your faith be it unto you”, but unfortunately when it comes to
controlling his own health, man has made very little progress for the past 5000 years. He
studiously learns how to feed the lower animals, but does not know how to feed himself!
Ehret's philosophy proves most satisfactory to the thinking mind, for the day of mere
theory in science is on the wane. Old worn-out dogmas and beliefs are rapidly giving
way to demonstrable facts. Bias, prejudice and erratic conclusions have always stood in
the way of progress and what the world most needs today is a sound, safe, sane and
simple working knowledge of the laws of life. The results of the last few years in world
affairs  clearly  established  in  fact  that  mere  faith,  dogmatic  assertions  and  scientific
hypotheses miserably failed to solve life's problems.
The power to heal is invested in the patient and as long as there is a single spark of life
there is always hope. To hold a fear or doubt that you cannot be well, healthy, happy and
successful is un-natural and therefore a hindrance to attaining you goal and a suppression
of your desire. It will be noted that Professor Ehret has used every effort to induce the
students to do their own thinking for he well recognizes the fact that in the final analysis
we must do our own curing. Only the knowledge of how to accomplish this much desired
condition of superb health, can be taught. The main trouble with the average individuals
of  present-day  civilization  is  that  they  refuse  to  think.  They  prefer  “mob  thinking”.
Because everybody else does it, it must be right. The real facts prove the opposite to be
the case.

The genuine principles of healing are simple and few, in fact, so simple that the so-
called scientific mind is prone to overlook the vital points of the application of the law.
Youth, strength and happiness need not belong to the young in years alone, for the young
in desire and creative energy may also have these much-to-be-desired possessions. Never
permit yourself to lose sight of the fact that while there is a spark of life in your bodies it
can be formed into an intense flame. For strength is born of desire.
Professor Ehret recognizes a number of causes that produce disease besides “mucus”
although this word is used in the title. Non-mucus-forming foods are clearly defined, and
the  student  can  be  guided  accordingly.  There  are  instances,  in  which  mucus-forming
foods may be permitted in the transition diet, in fact, where they are actually desired for
reasons that are enumerated in the lessons. The same food that constructs and generates,
will, if incorrectly used, destroy and degenerate, and likewise the very food that will
normally sustain life, might in the sick and degenerate body, if used wrongly or even
untimely, destroy life.
When your life is pulsating with joyous health, then you are living the super-life, the
birthright of every human being; the joy of living that Professor Arnold Ehret so ardently
desired might once more become the possession of all mankind.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
of
PROF. ARNOLD EHRET
Author of “Rational Fasting” and Originator of the
“Mucusless-Diet Healing System ”
Teacher of Dietetics, Faster and Lecturer
BY PROF. B. W. CHILD
I knew Professor Ehret first as an author, later as a sanitarium proprietor and lecturer,
and now esteem him highly as a friend and the pioneer of the most complete natural and
scientific  system  or  cult  for  the  Cure  and  Prevention  of  Disease  known.  I  have  no
hesitancy in stating that he has evolved and developed what now seems to be the “last
word” in regard to health and longevity.
He was born July 25, 1866, near Freiburg, in Baden, Germany, and lived to be 56 years
of age, and was endowed by his father with a natural bent or extraordinary desire for
delving into the causes and reasons for occurrences and results.
Ehret's education was obtained at a college where the long walk added to the other
work on the farm, on an ordinary diet, brought on a severe attach of bronchial catarrh. In
spite of this handicap he graduated with honors. His greatest interest being for physics,
chemistry, drawing and painting, he took a special academic course and graduated as
professor of drawing for high schools and colleges, at 21 years of age. He taught at a
college until drafted for military service, but was released after nine months' service
because of Neurasthenic heart trouble”, resuming his vocation as a teacher. At 31 years
of age he was quite fleshy and “looked well”, as others said, but was suffering from
kidney trouble, Bright's disease, with consumptive tendency.
In  his  own  words:  Five  times  I  took  vacations  to  recuperate,  but  finally  was
pronounced “incurable” and resigned. Then for five years I “suffered much from many
physicians” (24 in all) and part of this suffering was to pay the bills of about $6,000, but
with  the  result  pronounced  “incurable”.  Physically  and  nearly  mentally  bankrupt,  I
thought of suicide, but accidentally heard  of  natuopathy  and  was  treated  at  a  Kneipp
sanitarium three different times, getting some relief and a desire to live, but not cured.
Was treated at five or six other Nature Cure sanitariums and tried all other methods
known in Europe, expending more thousands, with the result that while not down sick,
neither  was  I  healthy.  I  learned  something  from  the  experiences,  though;  the  main
symptoms were mucus or pus and albumin in the urine and pain in the kidneys. The
doctors,  on  the  presumption  that  a  clear  urine  indicated  health,  tried  to  stop  these
elimination's with drugs and to replace the albumin by a meat, egg, and milk diet, but it
only increased the disastrous results. I reasoned out from these methods what seemed
like  a  great  light  on  the  subject,  that  the  right  diet  should  be  free  from  mucus  and
albumin. My naturopathic treatment drew out some of the mucus by baths, exercise, etc.,
but fed it back by wrong diet.
I resolved to face what seemed a tragedy for me (and does now to most chronically

sick persons after getting no relief from doctors), and try for myself that which I had
learned from past experience, that wrong eating was the cause and right eating might be
the cure. There was vegetarianism, fruit and nut diet, numerous food “cures” and a few
hints that fasting would help. I went to Berlin to study vegetarianism, as there were over
twenty  vegetarian  restaurants  there  at  that  time.  My  first  observation  was  that
vegetarians were not much more healthy than meat eaters, for many looked sickly and
pale. With the starchy food and milk I grew slowly worse, but started a course of study at
the university of medicine, physiology, and chemistry. I visited a school of naturopathy,
learned something of mental healing, Christian Science, magnetic healing, etc., etc., all
to try to find out the real and fundamental truths of perfect health. Was more or less
disappointed and went to Nice, in southern France, and tried a radical fruit diet with the
exception of a pint of milk a day, thinking then that I needed the albumin. I made no
special application of the fruit diet to my condition, as most others did not, and received
but little benefit. Some days I felt well and on others felt very bad, so I soon went back
home, returning to the so-called “good eating”, as lived and suggested by well-meaning
friends,  relatives  and  physicians.  I  had  learned  something  about  fasting,  but  it  was
opposed by all friends and relatives; even my former naturopathic doctor told my sister
that to a person with Bright's disease a few days' fast would prove fatal.
The  next  winter  I  went  to  Algiers,  in  northern  Africa.  The  mild  climate  and  the
wonderful fruits improved my condition and gave me more faith in Nature's methods and
an understanding of them, and I gained courage to try short fasts to assist the cleansing
properties of fruit and climate, with such results that one morning of a well feeling day I
chanced to notice in my mirror that my face had taken on an entirely new look; that of a
younger and healthy looking person. But on the next bad feeling day the old and sickly
looking face returned, yet it did not last long and these alternating changes in my face
impressed me as a “revelation” from Nature that I had found out her methods in part and
was on the right track, and I resolved to study them more and live them closer in my
future life.
An indescribable feeling never known before of better health, more vital energy, better
efficiency,  and  more  endurance  and  strength  came  to  me  and  gave  me  great  joy  and
happiness just to be alive. This was not only of the physical, but there was a great change
in my mental ability to perceive, to remember, greater courage and hope, and above all
an insight into the spiritual which became like a sunrise, throwing light upon all higher
and spiritual problems. All my faculties were improved, far surpassing their best during
my healthiest and best youth. My physical efficiency and endurance became wonderfully
increased. I took a bicycle trip of about 800 miles, from Algiers to Tunis, accompanied
by a trained bicyclist who lived on an ordinary diet. I was never behind him but often
ahead towards night when endurance became the test. Keep in mind that I was formerly a
candidate for death, so declared by the doctors, but now jubilant that I could surpass the
most efficient, and a constant joy of exhilaration having escaped the “slaughter house” of
mankind, called “Scientific Medical Clinics”.
Arriving home again, I demonstrated my ability and endurance to perform the hardest
farm labor and in tests of strength superior to those in good training on the ordinary diet,
but being surrounded by friends and relatives who were living in the ordinary way and
coming in contact with professional men who were excited by fear that my discoveries

were  of  true  principles  and  would  eventually  succeed  and  surpass  those  they  were
practicing, I gradually took up the ordinary diet. Fasting was then very unpopular and
living in the family of my sister who threatened to prevent it should I attempt one, I
could not take up again what I firmly believed and had proven by actual experience, that
fasting (simply eating less) was Nature's Omnipotent method of cleansing the body from
the effects of wrong and too much eating. I had also found it the “Master Key” to mental
and spiritual unfoldment and evolution. I had not neglected the study of the scientific
reasons  why  fruit  and  mucusless  foods  were  so  efficient,  and  had  found  that  they
developed during the process of digestion what was known as Grape Sugar, and from
what was termed carbohydrates by analysis. My experience, tests, and experiments as
well as cures, all showed that grape sugar of fruits was the essential material of human
food, giving the highest efficiency and endurance, and at the same time was the best
eliminator of debris and the most efficient healing agent known for the human body.
This was in direct contradiction of the nitrogenous-albumin theory of the doctors and
scientists and also of the more modern theory of “mineral salts”. In 1909 I wrote an
article denouncing the Metabolic theory and in 1912 learned that Dr. Thomas Powell of
Los Angeles had made the same discovery and was making remarkable cures by using
foods containing what he called “organic carbon”, which is the same food ingredients
that develop into grape sugar during digestion. With the embryo of these discoveries in
mind and my experiences I left my friends and relatives, who would have shortened my
life by their well-meaning kindness, and, accompanied by a young man who was won by
my  experience  to  try  with  me  experimental  diet  and  fasting  for  his  ailments,  the
principal one being stuttering, went to southern France. Here, during several months of
experiments, I renewed my experiences in Africa and won a firmer belief than ever that
fruit  diet  and  fasting  were  Nature's  infallible  factors  for  regaining  and  maintaining  a
superior health than is enjoyed by most of civilized mankind.
The results obtained were often called miraculous, but were only marvelous because
of their rareness. The knowledge I had gained of the wonderful methods by which Nature
carried on the cleansing from the impurities from wrong food, and then the regenerating,
repairing and strengthening, by the right food, was the marvel, but not a miracle.
Especially  important  were  the  results  on  this  comparatively  young  man—ten  years
younger than I. We made tests with all the general foods of civilization after cleansing
fasts. Our now more sensitive organs revolted at once against their undesirable elements
and especially against combinations, giving the most convincing evidence that modern
cooking,  with  its  mixtures,  with  but  little  knowledge  of  their  qualities,  was  the
fundamental cause of all diseases. It is impossible to know what food really is and its
effects until the body has been cleansed by Nature's own method, a fast. I have never
known of such experiments ever being made by anyone, and the facts gained have now
been so abundantly proven during may years of the most searching and difficult practice
that they have raised my knowledge above all doubts or arguments about the dietetic
opinions of others.
To  test  our  efficiency  at  exhaustive  labor,  we  took  a  trip  through  northern  Italy,
walking for 56 hours continuously without sleep or rest or food, only drink. This after a
seven-day fast and then only one meal of two pounds of cherries. This was called by the

professional minds that knew of it a most marvelous test, from their viewpoint. From
what came the energy for this efficiency? From nitrogen, albumin, organic salts, fats,
vitamins, or from what? After a 16-hour walk I made a test of knee bendings and arm
extendings, 360 times in a few minutes, and later numerous strength tests with athletic
competitors showing superior results. These after being pronounced incurable and my
father and brother having died of consumption. During our trip through Italy we were
often subjects of interesting comments by ladies on our ruddy and healthy complexion
and  inquiries  of  how  we  brought  it  about,  etc. As  a  completely  transformed  man,  I
desired higher experiences, as they were not only physical, but mental and spiritual. The
same with my young companion. He was wonderfully improved in many ways, but his
stuttering showed, no change. I had the idea that even that was caused by a physical
encumbrance of debris. We proceeded to a secluded place on the island of Capri and
there took longer fasts and daily sunbaths with heat around 120o of four to six hours. We
were so well cleansed that we did not sweat. On the eighteenth day my young friend
became  quite  hoarse,  and  fearing  he  would  lose  his  voice—not  then  knowing  what
caused it—ended his fast with about three pounds of figs, at my suggestion, with the
result that for nearly an hour he raised a very large quantity of mucus from his throat and
his  body  cleansed  itself  in  other  directions.  His  voice  soon  being  restored  and  his
stuttering disappeared and has never returned. We had accomplished what his rich father
had in vain tried to do by employing almost every known treatment for him, without the
slightest permanent improvement.
Fasting, Nature's Supreme Remedy, has been so crudely practiced, and is so generally
misunderstood,  that  it  is  very  important  that  it  be  rightly  explained.  From  my  long
experience in curing myself by fasting and mucusless diet, and in conducting fasts for
many hundred in my sanitarium in Switzerland, during a period of over ten years, I can
state with certainty of its wonderful potency and benefits when rightly conducted. My
first experience brought such beneficial results that I desired to perfect and verify the
methods employed, so I continued my observations and investigations of and into all
phases of life. I made many and very extensive experiments, and then my fully restored
young friend and myself started on a long trip. First, through southern Italy, walking and
living  on  an  almost  exclusive  grape  diet;  then  by  boat  to  Egypt,  Palestine,  Turkey,
Rumania and Austria, home. On this trip we learned much of the diet, habits, mentality
and health of the different peoples, and especially in the Orient, and with the result that
my belief in the superiority of European civilization received a severe shock, and my
belief strengthened that I was on the right track for a knowledge of a much superior
health with a better mental development, and a more active and longer life.
In Egypt, we saw a race of people of extraordinary strength and endurance, living on a
scanty vegetarian diet mostly, but with two supposedly bad habits—cigarette smoking
and drinking strong coffee, yet we saw not a single nervous or toxemic person. To see
how few kinds and how little food they ate, to learn that they are about the same kinds of
foods  that  their  ancestors  ate,  gives  one  a  reason  for  the  superior  qualities  of  old
Egyptian civilization.
In Palestine we stayed several months, studying local customs, records and history of
past  conditions,  with  the  result  that  my  conception  of  the  real  meaning  of  the  New
Testament  gospels  was  changed  very  much.  I  learned  that  Christ's  life  and  teachings

were in strict accord with now well known natural laws, which brought him superior
intelligence and superior health, but that when written up from current hearsay some 150
years  after,  was  colored  by  oriental  forms  of  expression  and  metaphors,  and  their
incomplete  knowledge  of  natural  phenomena.  What  was  marvelous  was  thought
miraculous. His “forerunners”, his fastings, his diet, and manner of living, and that of his
associates, all reveal the natural living, which brought him superior health with no need
of any special divine assistance. He verified this by stating that future generations would
“do greater works than he did”, as they would get a better knowledge of natural—God's
—“unchangeable”  laws  and  methods.  My  “coming  book”  will  state,  with  convincing
proof,  that  Christ's  parentage,  so-called  miracles  of  healing,  and  apparent  changes  of
natural law, his resurrection and ascension, into “Heaven”, were in accord with natural
law, but not then, and not wholly now, understood. The present ignorance of the laws
underlying normal health is now, in this century, the greatest of all the past centuries,
and  is  evidenced  by  the  deterioration  of  the  so-called  civilized  people,  health-wise,
although  advanced  far,  in  many  ways.  What  I  have  learned  by  my  researches  and
experiences, and the possibilities of restoring humanity to a superior health, with the
advance of modern times, is like opening a “Book of Seven Seals”. To show Christ's life
in the sunlight of really natural and scientific laws, therefore eternal and really divine,
identical with those of our own nature, is an inspiration and an aspiration which many
are now enjoying and no one should miss.
The other countries visited revealed phases and facts of natural health principles, and I
took up with more confidence and enthusiasm than ever before the perfection of my own
health by fasting experiments and an improved diet. I instinctively felt and soon proved
that certain natural foods prepared in the right way, had a superior energy producing
power, and also a superior cleansing power, when rightly used, and in connection with an
intelligent abstinence from any food, for the prevention as well as curing diseases of all
kinds.  That  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  individual's  encumbrance  with  disease
debris—not germs—and his age, occupation, climate, season of the year, etc., that even
the then so-called incurable diseases were helped in a uniform and orderly manner, and a
cure certain, if not too much encumbered by habits and age. The right kinds and less
food  as  a  preparation  for  short  or  longer  fasts  as  the  condition  indicated,  gives  the
digestive organs a rest or “vacation” from over-work, and then the resuming of eating by
a selection of the right kinds, (this being very important) brings wonderfully surprising
and  beneficial  results.  I  fasted  for  twenty-four  days  with  such  marvelously  pleasing
results,  not  only  to  my  physical  condition,  but  to  my  mental  and  my  aspirations
spiritually, that my enthusiasm increased to tell my friends and other of my discoveries,
experiences and conclusive results. I could not describe my feelings, but told them they
must experience them for themselves, which some took up at once. I commenced my
educational work by public fasts and lessons, fasting twice in large German cities, and
twice in Switzerland. I was sealed in a room by Notaries of State, and strictly watched
and controlled by physicians, and with no outside interference or communications. One
fast of 21 days, one of 24, one of 32, one of 49 days in Cologne, all within a period of 14
months. Between these fasts, and after, my work was lecturing, giving tests of physical
and  mental  efficiency,  proving  the  value  of  what  I  had  learned  and  experienced,  and
these  forced  me  to  teaching  and  advising  others,  writing  articles,  and  starting  a
sanitarium in Switzerland, and advising by correspondence.

My first written article was after my forty-nine day fast in Cologne, and published in a
Vegetarian magazine, stating quite a new experience from fasting, diet and healing of
disease; in fact, of life itself and in enjoyment and prolongation. It had a sensational and
revolutionizing effect. It brought me letters of inquiry from all parts of the world, and in
Europe particularly, health seekers, reformers and medical men were soon divided into
opposers and enthusiastic followers. These writings brought on a scientific controversy
or fight over the new principles I had brought to light, that in Europe the two opposing
combinations were known as “Ehretists” and “Non-Ehretists”
The truth of the Ehretists was well described by a prominent editor and reformer as
follows: “He (Ehret) did not invent or originate fasting, or the use of fruit or improved
diet, for those are well known and were used long ago as good factors of Naturopathy,
but what he did do was to originate an entirely new system of combining them as a
systematic Healing method, on a basis of perfect Nutrition and Fasting”,
“My  mucus  theory—afterwards  a  proven  fact—as  the  fundamental  cause  of  all
diseases, was more and more recognized, and consequently my system of healing, too. It
has stood the test and brought what one writer has expressed as “enormous success”, and
today has a platform that: Natural Treatment and Diet is the Most Perfect and Successful
system  of  healing  known.  It  has  automatically  named  itself  “Nutro-Therapy”  and  its
resulting “cult” “Naturopathy”. For over ten years I wrote articles for health journals,
lectured in the large cities of Europe, discussing the merits of the system with medical
men  and  professionals,  and  treating  thousands  of  patients  at  my  “Fruit  and  Fasting
Sanitarium” and by correspondence, and without changing the fundamental principles,
but strengthening them by a better knowledge of their details and how to apply them for
best  results.  From  all  these  was  evolved  what  is  now  becoming  well  known  in  this
country—the  name, “Mucusless Diet”. I came to the United States just before World
War  I  to  visit  the  Panama  Exposition,  and  to  examine  the  fruits  raised  here,  and
particularly  of  California,  and  my  enforced  remaining  here  by  the  war  has  seemed
providential  in  finding  those  here  who  had  similar  advances,  discoveries  and
experiences,  and  we  are  now  advocating  and  bringing  to  public  knowledge  the  same
principles  that  were  so  successful  in  Europe,  in  relieving  suffering  humanity  and
preventing disease, and developing an improved race of people that will not know what
diseased conditions are, and bring about a better civilized humanity.
In editing Professor Ehret's life-work items, I am pleased to add that the discoveries
made here by Dr. Thomas Powell, which I assisted in developing and adding to, were
intuitively surmised by Professor Ehret (afterwards found to be proved by his results,
and later corroborated by reference to Chemist Hensel's scientific analysis of foods) are
that fruits and vegetables have elements which are superior to those in any other foods,
for producing vital energy, both in amount and quality. These elements or ingredients are
known as “organized carbon” and “grape sugar”. Their presence in sufficient quantities
refutes  the  now  current  idea  that  the  organic,  mineral  or  tissue  salts  are  the  energy
producing elements. They exist only in infinitesimal amounts in all foods, and parts of
them are drugs. Neither are the number of calories (“heat units” by calorimeter tests),
reasonable  basis  for  selecting  a  proper  diet.  My  over  forty  years  of  observation,
experiences and research have proven conclusively to me that fruits and vegetables have
all the tissue salts needed, and that the presence of actually well known ingredients in

sufficient quantity are the energy and life supporting ingredients which make them the
superior  of  all  other  foods,  when  the  debris  (mucus)  from  the  “mucus-rich”  foods  is
eliminated. Then the full beneficial effect of the “Mucusless Diet” can be enjoyed.
Prof. Arnold Ehret was undoubtedly one of the greatest healers of modern times—
Philosopher, Teacher and Health lecturer—he came to this country searching for further
knowledge plus a desire to share his remarkable healing discoveries with those willing to
accept.
This overwhelming desire to help his fellow-man—to learn the truth—together with a
willingness to admit he did not know it all, was his motivating force. He recognized the
necessity  for  united  effort  and  hoped  to  avoid  unpleasant  consequences  that  result
through petty jealousies. The valuable thoughts, deeds and words of wisdom, was his
heritage  he  left  to  us  when  he  passed  into  the  great  beyond.  The  magnitude  and
versatility of the healing art that Prof. Ehret chose as his field of endeavor, welcomed the
friendly cooperation of all Natural Healers and Drugless Practitioners.
More than any other thing, he wanted to give to the world the benefits of his now-
proven health discoveries—this BETTER HEALTH which he himself had achieved and
had  already  taught  to  thousands  at  this  Swiss  Sanitarium,  public  demonstrations,  and
through health magazine articles.
It was a constant source of personal gratification, to know that his health teachings
were increasingly gaining acceptance among both the laity and professional practitioners
as well—who unhesitatingly accepted fresh fruits and green leaf vegetables as the proper
food  for  mankind.  Even  the  personally  coined  descriptive  words  such  as
—“Mucus”—“Mucusless”—“Mucus-lean”—and  “Mucus-plus”  have  gradually  become
well known.
Arnold  Ehret  leaves  a  heritage  of  vast  worth  to  humanity—possibly  the  most
important message that mankind has received since thousands of years! Ehret's teaching
—vouchsafes  to  all  his  followers—HEALTH—which  is  more  valuable  than  worldly
wealth—joyous happiness in living—and a complete spiritual awakening! This humble
message of mine, will hopefully bring added fame to a long-to-be-remembered “Apostle
of Health”—Prof. Arnold Ehret.

General Introductory Principles
LESSON I.
Every disease, no matter what name it is known by Medical Science, is
Constipation
A clogging up of the entire pipe system of the human body. Any special symptom is
therefore merely an extraordinary local constipation by more accumulated mucus at this
particular  place.  Special  accumulation  points  are  the  tongue,  the  stomach  and
particularly the entire digestive tract. This last is the real and deeper cause of bowel
constipation. The average person has as much as ten pounds of uneliminated feces in the
bowels continually, poisoning the blood stream and the entire system. Think of it!
Every  sick  person  has  a  more  or  less  mucus-clogged  system,  such  mucus  being
derived from undigested and uneliminated, unnatural food substances, accumulated from
childhood  on.  Details  regarding  this  fact  may  be  learned  by  reading  my “Rational
Fasting and Regeneration Diet”.*
My “Mucus Theory”  and “Mucusless Diet Healing System”  stand  unshaken;  it  has
proven the most successful “Compensation-Action” so-called cure against every kind of
disease. By its systematic application thousands of declared-incurable patients could be
saved.
Th e Mucusless  Diet  consists  of  all  kinds  of  raw  and  cooked  fruits,  starchless
vegetables,  and  cooked  or  raw,  mostly  green-leaf  vegetables. The  Mucusless  Diet
Healing  System  is  a  combination  of  individually  advised  long  or  short  fasts,  with
progressively changing menus of non-Mucus-Forming Foods. This diet alone can heal
every case of “disease” without fasting, although such a cure requires longer time. The
System itself will be expounded in later lessons.
However, to learn how to apply the system, to understand how and why it works, it is
necessary to free your mind from Medical errors, partly taken over by Naturopathy. In
other words, I must teach you a new Physiology, free from Medical errors; a new method
of Diagnosis; a correction of the Fundamental errors of Metabolism, high Protein foods,
Blood circulation, Blood composition, and last, but not least, you must be taught.
What Vitality Really Is
To  Medical  Science  the  human  body  is  still  a  mystery,  especially  in  diseased
condition. Every new disease “discovered” by the doctors is a new mystery for them.
There  are  no  words  to  properly  express  how  far  from  the  truth  they  actually  are!
Naturopathy  uses  the  word Vitality  continually,  yet  neither  “Medical  Scientists”  nor
Naturopaths can tell what Vitality is.
Not only is it necessary to eradicate all of these errors from your brain, but the truth
must be shown you in such a new and simple light that you can grasp it at once. This
great  advantage  of  simplicity  and  clarity  is  one  of  the  fundamental  reasons  for  my
success.  Withal,  my  teachings  cover  the truth.  Incidentally,  whatever simple  reason
cannot grasp is humbug, however scientific it may sound.

You will learn how wrong and ignorant it is to believe that any special disease can be
healed by eating the right food, living upon “special menus” or undergoing long fasts, if
such  is  done  without  experience  and  without  system  and  special  advice  for  each
individual case.
“Fasting” has been known for hundreds of years as a “compensation” against every
disease, as Nature's only and infallible law, and the same applies to the Mucusless Diet;
as stated in Genesis (fruits and herbs, i.e., green leaves). But why has it never come into
general use and resultant universal success? Because it was never used systematically in
accordance with the condition of the patient. The average man has not the slightest idea
what the necessary eliminative process is; what time it requires; how and how often his
diet must be changed; what it means to cleanse the body of the terrible quantities of
waste he has accumulated in his body during his life.
Disease  is  an  effort  of  the  body  to  eliminate  waste,  mucus  and  toxemias,  and  this
system assists Nature in the most perfect and natural way Not the disease but the body is
to be healed; it must be cleansed, freed from waste and foreign matter, from mucus and
toxemias accumulated since childhood. You cannot buy health in a bottle, you cannot
heal  your  body,  that  is,  cleanse  your  system  in  a  few  days,  you  must  make
“compensation” for the wrong you have done your body all during your life.
My system is not a cure or a remedy; it is a regeneration, a thorough house-cleaning,
the acquisition of such clean and perfect health as you never knew before.
Remember: Your constitutional encumbrances throughout the entire system are the
source  of  every  disease;  the  greatest  and  most  harmful  source  of  lowered  vitality,
imperfect health, lack of strength and endurance and any and all imperfect conditions.
All have their source in the colon, never perfectly emptied since your birth. Nobody on
earth today has an ideally clean body and therefore perfectly clean blood. What Medical
Science calls normal health is in fact a pathological condition.
In Summa: The human mechanism is an elastic pipe system. The diet of civilization is
never entirely digested and the resultant waste eliminated. This entire pipe system is
slowly constipated, especially at the place of the symptom and the digestive tract. This is
the  foundation  of  every  disease.  To  loosen  this  waste,  eliminate  it  intelligently  and
thoroughly, and to control this elimination can only be done perfectly by the
MUCUSLESS-DIET
HEALING SYSTEM
*   “Rational Fasting”, by Arnold Ehret, Published by the Ehret Literature Publishing
Company, Inc. Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522-0024.

Latent, Acute and Chronic Diseases
No Longer a Mystery
 
LESSON II.
The first lesson has now given you an insight as to what disease actually is. In addition
to mucus and its toxemias in the system, there are other foreign matters such as uric
acid, toxins, etc., and especially drugs if ever used. I learned thru the years of practical
experience that drugs are NEVER eliminated as is the waste from foods—but are stored
up in the body for decades. Hundreds of cases have come under my observation where
drugs taken 10, 20, 30 and even 40 years were expelled together with mucus thru this
perfect  healing  system. This  is  a  fact  of  basic  importance—especially  for  the
Practitioner. When these chemical poisons after being dissolved are taken back into the
circulation for elimination thru the kidneys—the nerves and heart are affected—causing
extreme  nervousness,  dizziness  and  excessive  heart-beats,  as  well  as  other  strange
sensations.  The  uninformed  stands  before  a  mystery  and  probably  calls  the  family
doctor,  who  now  diagnoses  the  condition  as  “heart-disease”  and  blames  the  “lack  of
food” instead of the drugs he prescribed 10 years ago.
The average “normal” man, considered healthy, has a chronic, stored-up accumulation
of waste food—poisons and drugs.
This Is His Latent Disease
When these latent disease matters are occasionally stirred up, for instance by a cold,
he  expels  great  quantities  of  mucus,  and  feels  unhappy  instead  of  enjoying  Nature's
cleaning process. If the quantity of loosened mucus is great enough to shock the entire
system, more of less, but still not dangerous, it may be diagnosed as Influenza. If the
eliminating work of Nature digs deeper into the system, especially into that important
organ, the lungs, so much mucus and poisons are loosened at once that the circulation
has  to  work  under  great  friction,  similar  to  a  dirty  machine—or,  for  example  an
automobile running with its brakes set. The friction produces abnormal heat, which is
called fever, and the doctors call it Pneumonia, which is really a “feverish” effort on
Nature's part to free the MOST VITAL organ from its waste. If the kidneys are called
upon  to  eliminate  this  loosened  mucus,  thereby  shocking  this  organ,  it  is  called
Nephritis, etcetera, etcetera.
In other words, whenever Nature endeavors to save a human life thru her efforts to
eliminate “feverishly”, mucus and its toxic products, it is called acute disease.
Acute Disease
The Medical profession has over 4000 names for different ailments. The derivation of
the particular or special name of the disease is made up according to the respective local
place of elimination; or pertains to the congested point where the blood stream finds it
difficult  of  passage  and  causes  pain—such  as  pains  in  the  joints,  as  in  cases  of
rheumatism, for example.

For ages, this well-meaning effort and intended self-healing work of Nature has been
misunderstood and suppressed thru the agency of drugs, and the continuance of eating,
despite  the  warning  danger  signals  of  pain  and  loss  of  appetite.  Notwithstanding  the
“help” of the doctors—help, in fact, often injurious and dangerous to the patient's life –
his  vitality  and  especially  his  eliminating  abilities  are  lowered,  and  Nature  proceeds
slowly. Under this handicap Nature cannot work, as efficiently, requiring more time and
the  case  is  then  called  “chronic”.  The  word  chronic  is  derived  from  the  Greek  word
“chronos”, meaning time. You will be taught in Supplement to Diagnosis—(Lesson III
and IV) more about this “mystery”.

The Diagnosis
LESSON III.
Why the Diagnosis?
Laymen and even some dietetic experts with the exception of myself, believe there is
no need for diagnosis. You may ask, since there is only one disease why the diagnosis? If
all  sickness  is  due  to  uncleanliness  from  uneliminated,  undigested  food,  mucus,  uric
acid, toxemias, drugs, etc., why diagnose? We shall now learn why fruit-diet and fasting
have  produced  such  doubtful  results,  thru  their  incorrect  use  and  misunderstanding,
caused thru the belief that general rules of this cure are suitable for everybody and for
every case. Nothing is further from the truth! No other cure requires so much individual
specialization and continual changing to meet the reaction of the patient. This is why
people  who  attempt  these  methods  of  cure  without  expert  knowledge  or  advice
frequently bring about serious results.
Promiscuous Fasting
McFadden, and many others, advise, for instance, fasting as applicable to all cases. I
learned  thru  thousands  of  cases  during  my  experience  that  nothing  requires  more
individual, different application than fasting and the mucus-less diet. Of two patients,
one may effect a complete recovery after a fast of two or three weeks, while the other
may  die  from  the  same  treatment!  That  is  why  an  individual  diagnosis  of  general
conditions and constitutional encumbrances is so necessary.
Method of Constitutional Diagnosis
My diagnosis determines the following points:
1.   The relative amount of encumbrance in the system.
2.   The predominant part, that is, whether more mucus or more poisons.
3.   If pus is present in the system, amount and kind of drugs used.
4.   If internal tissue or an organ is in a process of decomposition.
5.   How far vitality is lowered.
You will also learn thru experience and observations along these lines that the general
appearance,  especially  the  face  of  the  patient  will  indicate  more  or  less  the  internal
conditions.*
Medical Diagnosis
Medical diagnosis throws no real light on the subject, although doctors think it more
important than the actual cure. It is made up of a series of reports and symptoms and a
scheme of experiences from which thousands of diseases are named. Characteristic of
the meaningless medical diagnosis is the frequent statement of many patients that “the
doctors could not find out what I have”. The name of the disease does not concern us at
all. A man with gout, one with indigestion, or one with Bright's disease may start with
the same advice. Whether to fast, for instance, and how long, does not depend upon the
name of the disease, but upon the patient's condition and how far vitality is lowered.

Naturopathic Concepts
Naturopathy is an advance over medicine in teaching that all disease is constitutional.
Naturopathy does not explain sufficiently the source, nature and composition of “foreign
matters” as the fundamental one-ness of all disease.
Dr. Lahmann said: “Every disease is caused by carbonic acid and gas”. But he did not
learn  its  source  in  decayed,  uneliminated  food  substances-the  mucus  in  a  state  of
continuous fermentation.
Dr. Jaeger said: “Disease is a stench”. Nature gives a diagnosis thru bad odor, which
indicates how far the inside decomposition has progressed.
Dr. Haigh of England, the founder of the “Anti-uric acid diet”, bases his conception of
general diagnose on the assumption that the majority of diseases are caused thru uric
acid, certainly an important part of diseased matter besides mucus.
Naturopathy lays considerable stress and importance on symptomatical diagnosis in
spite of the acknowledgment that there is only one disease.
Uric Diagnosis
Medical doctors and many others consider this special kind of diagnosis as the most
important one, but it is fundamentally misunderstood. Beside the digestive tract, the uric
canal is the main avenue of elimination. As soon as any one decreases his eating, fasts a
little,  or  changes  over  to  the  natural  diet,  he  has  waste,  mucus,  poisons,  uric  acid,
phosphates, etc., in this urine, and an analysis of his urine is alarming. This likewise
happens  in  the  majority  of  cases  whenever  anyone  becomes  sick.  Everyone  becomes
alarmed  at  this  effort  of  the  body  to  eliminate  waste—which  is  in  truth  the  healing,
cleansing process.
Should sugar or albumen be found in the urine the case is called “very serious”, and
diagnosed “Diabetes”, or “Bright's disease”, respectively. Under medical treatment the
patient in the first named case, dies thru sugar-starvation, caused thru a lack of sugar and
sugar-formers  in  the  dietary.  In  the  latter  diagnosis  the  patient  dies  from  forced
“albumen replacement” resulting from over-feeding of foods rich in albumen.
Whatever  the  body  expels  is  waste,  decayed,  dead—and  simply  indicates  that  the
patient is in an advanced state of inside uncleanliness, already causing a decomposition
of inside organs—producing rapid decay of all food taken into the body. These cases,
like tuberculosis, must be treated very carefully and VERY SLOWLY.
How It Looks in the Human Colon
It is of utmost importance that thru our diagnosis we must learn as much as possible
the general appearance of the inside of the human body. Our diagnosis therefore consists
of finding out the degree of quantities of individual waste matter of the patient.
Experts in autopsy state they have found that from 60 to 70 per cent of the colons
examined have foreign matters such as worms and decades-old feces-stones. The inside
walls  of  the  over-intestines  are  encrusted  by  old,  hardened  feces  and  resemble  in
appearance the inside of a filthy stove-pipe.

I had fat patients that eliminated from their body as much as 50 to 60 pounds waste,
and  10  to  15  pounds  alone  from  the  colon,  mainly  consisting  of  foreign  matters,
especially  old,  hardened  feces.  The  average  so-called  “healthy”  man  of  today  carries
continually with him, since childhood, several pounds of never eliminated feces. One
“good stool” a day means nothing. A fat and sick man is in fact a living “cesspool”. A
distinct surprise to me was that a number of my patients in such condition had already
undertaken so-called “Nature cures”.
*   For further information refer to page 42, “The Magic Mirror”.

The Diagnosis (Continued)
LESSON IV.
Fat and Lean Types
The  bodily  mechanism  of  the  fat  type  is,  on  the  average, mechanically  more
obstructed, because he is in general an overeater of starchy foods. In the lean type there
is  more physiological  chemical  interference  with  the  organism,  such  as  one  being  in
general a one-sided meat eater, which condition produces especially, much acidity, uric
acid, other poisons and pus.
Disease Story
As  a  general  rule  I  ask  my  prospective  patients  the  following  questions  as  the
knowledge to be gained is of great importance:
1.   How long have you been sick?
2.   What did the doctor call your disease?
3.   What was the nature of the treatment?
4.   How much and what kinds of treatment taken?
5.   Have you ever been operated upon?
6.   What other kinds of treatment have you taken before?
(Age, sex, whether a disease is inherited, etc., are important points.)
The most important thing, however, is the patient's diet at present, his special craving
for certain foods and his wrong habits; if constipated, and how long. What kind of diets,
if any, were used before. It is necessary to base the change in diet on the patient's present
diet, and only a SLIGHT CHANGE toward an improved diet is advisable.
The Experimental Diagnosis
THE MOST EXACT, UNERRING DIAGNOSIS WE HAVE IS A SHORT FAST. The more rapidly the
patient  feels  “worse”  thru  a  short  fast,  the  greater  and  the  more  poisonous  is  his
encumbrance.  Should  he  become  dizzy,  suffer  severe  headaches,  etc.,  he  is  greatly
clogged up with mucus and toxemias. If palpitation of the heart occurs it is a sign that
pus is somewhere in the system, or that drugs, even though taken many years ago, are in
the circulation for elimination.
Any  inside  special  “constipated”  place  is  located  by  a  light  pain  there.  The
experimental  practitioner  can  ascertain  better  than  with  X-rays  through  Nature's
revelation  after  a  short  fast  the  true  condition  of  the  inside  of  the  human  body,  and
knows  the  real  diagnosis  more  correctly  than  doctors  can  ascertain  with  all  their
expensive scientific equipment and instruments.
If this “short-fast” diagnosis is tried on the average man called normal and healthy,
but in reality clogged up with mucus—latent disease—Nature reveals the same to you in
a moderate degree, and if a “weak point” has begun to develop, unsuspected by them,
Nature will unerringly indicate where and how he will later become sick if the wrong

method  of  living  is  continued,  although  it  may  be  after  some  years.  This  then  is  the
PROGNOSIS OF DISEASE.
Some Special Diagnosis
To show that all differently named diseases, even the most severe ones, have their
bases and are caused by the same general and constitutional encumbrance of the body, I
shall  show  you,  in  the  light  of  truth,  a  few  characteristic  kinds  of  cases.  Thru  these
illustrative examples I shall prove that there is not a single disease, not a disturbance or
sensation, not an unhealthy appearance or symptom, which cannot be explained and seen
at once in its real nature as local constipation, constitutional constipation by mucus and
its toxemias; most of the quantities continually supplied from the “chronic reserve stock
of waste” in the stomach, intestines, and especially in the colon. The “basement” (colon)
of  the  human  “temple”  is  the  reservoir  from  which  every  symptom  of  disease  and
weakness is supplied in all its manifestations.
A COLD
Is a beneficial effort to eliminate waste from the cavities of the head, the throat and the
bronchial tubes.
PNEUMONIA
The cold goes deeper and will eliminate and clean the mucus from the most spongy
and  vital  organ,  the  lung.  A  hemorrhage  occurs  to  clean  more  radically.  The  entire
system is aroused, causing higher temperature by friction of the waste in circulation.
That proves alarming, and the doctor suppresses by drugs and food, actually blocking
Nature's  process  of  healing—cleansing.  If  the  patient  does  not  die,  the  elimination
becomes chronic, and is called
CONSUMPTION
The consumptive patient eliminates continually his mucus caused from erroneously
increased, mucus-forming foods, thru the lungs instead of thru the natural ways. This
organ itself decays more and more, producing germs, and is then called tuberculosis.
The vital organ (lung)—the pump—works insufficiently on the circulation, the entire
cell system decays more and more, and decomposes before the patient dies.
TOOTHACHE
Its pain is a warning signal of Nature: “Stop eating; I must repair; there is waste and
pus; you have eaten too much lime-poor food, meat.”
RHEUMATISM and GOUT
Mucus  and  uric  acid  particularly  accumulated  in  the  joints,  since  here  is  the  less
dependable part of the tissues for  the  passage  of  the  circulation,  heavily  loaded  with
waste and uric acid in the one-sided meat eater's body.
STOMACH TROUBLE
The  stomach  is  the  central  organ  of  disease  matter  supply.  There  is  a  limit  to  the
ability of this organ to digest and to empty itself after the meal. Every food (even the
best  kinds)  are  mixed  with  this  acid  mucus,  continually  remaining  in  the  average

person's stomach. The wonder is how long the human being can stand such conditions.
GOITER
is a sane deposit by Nature of tremendous waste to keep it from entering the circulation.
BOIL
is in principle the same, only the elimination is outside.
STAMMERING
Special accumulation of mucus in the throat, interfering with the functioning of the
vocal chords. I cured several cases.
LIVER and KIDNEY DISEASES
These organs are of a very spongy construction, and their function is that of a kind of
physiological sieve. They are, therefore, easily constipated by sticky mucus.
SEX DISEASES
These have for their origin nothing more than mucus elimination thru these organs,
and are easily healed. The use of drugs alone produces the characteristic symptoms of
syphilis. The more drugs that have been used, especially mercury, the more carefully the
treatment must be conducted.
EYE and EAR DISEASES
Even short or long sight is congestion in the eyes and trouble with hearing congestion
of those organs. I healed a few kinds of blindness and deafness by the same principles.
 
Mental Diseases
Besides a congested system, I found that anyone mentally diseased has congestion,
especially of the brain. One man on the verge of insanity was cured by a four week's fast.
There  is  nothing  easier  to  heal  than  insanity  by  fasting—such  men  having  lost  their
reason,  their  natural  instinct  tell  them  not  to  eat.  I  learned  that  if  you  heal  by  the
Mucusless Diet Healing System all kinds of diseases, most of the patients are relieved of
greater  or  less  mental  conditions. After  a  fast  comes  a  clearer  mind.  Unity  of  ideas
comes to take the place of differences. Differences of ideas today are caused largely by
diet. If something is wrong with anyone, look first to the stomach. The mentally diseased
man suffers physiologically from gas pressure on the brain.

The Magic Mirror
 
SUPPLEMENT TO DIAGNOSIS – (LESSON III AND IV)
Since  man  degenerated  thru  civilization,  he  no  longer  knows  what  to  do  when  he
becomes sick. Disease remains the same mystery to modern medical science as it was to
the  “Medicine  Man”  of  thousands  of  years  ago—the  main  difference  being  that  the
“germ” theory has replaced the “Demon” and that mysterious outside power still remains
—to harm you and destroy life.
Disease is a mystery to you as well as to every doctor who has not as yet looked into
the “magic mirror”, which I am about to explain. Naturopathy deserves full credit for
having proven that disease is within you—a foreign matter which has weight, and which
must be eliminated.
If you want to become your own physician, or, if you are a Drugless Healer and want
more  success,  you  must  learn  the  truth  and  know  what  disease  is.  You  cannot  heal
yourself, or other people, without an exact diagnosis, which will give you a clear idea of
true conditions. This infallible truth can be learned only from the book of Nature, that is,
thru a test on your own body—or the “magic mirror”, as I have designated it.
The sufferer from any kind of disease—or any person, whether sick or not—who will
go  thru  this  healing  process  of  fasting  and  mucusless  diet,  will  eliminate  mucus—
thereby demonstrating that the basic cause of all latent diseases of man is a clogged up
tissue system of uneliminated, un-used and un-digested food substances.
Thru the “magic mirror” a true and unfailing diagnosis of your disease is furnished, as
never before.
“The Magic Mirror”
1.   Proof that your personal, individual symptom, sore, or sensation, according to
what  your  disease  is  named,  is  nothing  more  than  an  extraordinary  local
accumulation of waste.
2.   The coated tongue is evidence of a constitutional encumbrance thruout the entire
system, which obstructs and congests the circulation by dissolved mucus, and
this mucus even appears in the urine.
3.   The presence of unevaluated feces, retained thru sticky mucus in the pockets of
the  intestines,  constantly  poisoning,  and  thereby  interfering  with  proper
digestion and blood building.
To look inside your body—far better and clearer than can be done by doctors with
expensive X-ray apparatus—and learn the cause of your disease, or even discover some
hitherto unknown physical imperfection or mental condition, try this:
Fast one or two days, or eat fruits only (such as oranges, apples, or any juicy fruit in
season) for two or three days, and you will notice that your tongue will become heavily
coated.  When  this  happens  to  the  acutely  sick,  the  doctor's  conclusion  is  always
—“indigestion”.  The  tongue  is  the  mirror  not  only  of  the  stomach,  but  of  the  entire

membrane system, as well. The fact that this heavy coating returns, even if removed by a
tongue  scraper  once  or  twice  a  day,  is  an  accurate  indication  of  the  amount  of  filth,
mucus and other poisons accumulated in the tissues of your entire system, now being
eliminated on the inside surface of the stomach, intestines and from every cavity of your
body.
You will become further convinced of this fact—of this diagnosis of your disease—by
another surprise in store for you; if you will empty your intestines both before and after
the test.
During the Fast you are truly on Nature's operating table without the use of a knife!
The cleansing eliminating process begins immediately and the knowledge contained in
these lessons provide the needed information necessary to secure the desired results.
After  you  have  fasted,  it  is  advisable  to  decrease  the  quantity  of  your  customary
amount of food and eat only natural, cleansing, mucusless foods (fruits and starchless
vegetables), thereby affording the body an opportunity to loosen and eliminate mucus,
which is, in fact, THE HEALING PROCESS.
This  “mirror”  on  the  tongue's  surface  reveals  to  the  observer  the  amount  of
encumbrance that has been clogging up the system since childhood, thru wrong mucus-
forming foods. After observing the urine during this test, by allowing it to stand for a
few hours, you will note the elimination of quantities of mucus in same.
The  actual  amount  of  filth  and  waste,  which  is  the  “mysterious”  cause  of  your
“trouble”, is almost unbelievable.
Disease—every  disease—is,  first,  a  special,  local  constipation  of  the  circulation,
tissues, pipe system. The manifestation of symptoms, or of the different symptoms. If
painful and inflamed, it is from over-pressure-heat or inflammation caused from friction
and congestion.
Second, disease—every disease—is constitutional constipation. The entire human pipe
system, especially the microscopically small capillaries are “chronically” constipated,
through the wrong food of civilization.
White blood corpuscles are waste—and there is no man in Western civilization who
has mucus-free blood and mucus-free blood vessels. It is like the soot in a stovepipe
which has never been cleaned; in fact, worse, because the waste from protein and starchy
foods is STICKY.
The characteristics of tissue construction, especially of the important internal organs,
such as the lungs, kidneys, all glands, etc., are very much similar to those of a sponge.
Imagine a sponge soaked in paste or glue!
Naturopathy  must  more  and  more,  cleanse  its  science  from  medical  superstitions,
wrongly called “scientific diagnosis”. Nature alone is the teacher of a standard science of
truth. She heals thru one thing—FASTING—every disease that is possible to heal. This
alone is proof that Nature recognizes but one disease, and that in every body the largest
factors  are  always  waste,  foreign  matter  and  mucus  (besides  uric  acid  and  other
toxemias, and, very often, pus-if tissues are decomposed).

In order to realize how terribly clogged up the human body is, one must have seen
thousands of fasters-as I have. The almost inconceivable fact is, how can such quantities
of  waste  be  stored  up  in  the  body?  Have  your  ever  stopped  to  realize  the  masses  of
phlegm  you  expel  during  a  cold?  And  just  as  it  is  taking  place  in  your  head,  your
bronchial tubes, lungs, stomach, kidneys, bladder, etc., have the same appearance. All are
in the same condition. And the spongy organ known as the tongue accurately mirrors on
its surface the appearance of every other part of your body.
Medicine  has  devised  a  “special  science”  of  laboratory  tests,  urinal  diagnosis  and
blood tests.
More than fifty years ago, the most prominent pioneers of Naturopathy said: “Every
disease is foreign matter—waste”. I said twenty years ago, and repeat it again and again,
that most of these foreign matters are paste produced from wrong foods, decomposed-to
be seen when it leaves the body as mucus. Meat decomposes into pus.
The  light  of  truth  dawned  upon  me  after  I  had  fasted,  against  the  will  of  the
Naturopath from whom I was taking treatment for Bright's disease. When the test-tube
filled up with albumen, I read his thoughts in his facial expression. But to me it proved
that whatever Nature expels-eliminates-is waste; whether it be albumen, sugar, mineral
salt or uric acid. This occurred more than twenty-four years ago, but this Nature-doctor
(a former M.D.) still believes in the replacement of albumen by high protein foods.
The medical diagnosis of Bright's disease, when the chemical test of urine shows a
high  percentage  of  albumen,  is  as  misleading  as  others.  The  elimination  of  albumen
proves that the body does not need it. That it is over-fed, over-loaded with high protein
stuff. Instead of decreasing these poison producing foods, they are wrongly increased,
endeavoring to replace the “loss”, until the patient dies. How tragic to replace waste,
while Nature is endeavoring to save you, by removing it!
The next important laboratory test is that of sugar in the urine, Diabetes. The medical
dictionary still calls it “mysterious”. Instead of eating natural sweets, which go into the
blood and which can be used, the diabetic patient is fed eggs, meat, bacon, etc., and, in
fact, actually starves to death thru lack of natural, sugar-containing and sugar-producing
foods, which have been withheld.
It has long since been proven that all of these blood tests, especially the Wassermann
test, are a fallacy.
We, as Naturopaths, cannot ignore Nature's teaching in any way, even tho we may find
it difficult to discard old errors hammered into us since childhood.
One of the most misleading errors is the individual naming of all disease. The name of
any disease is not important, and not of any value whatsoever when starting a natural
cure, especially thru fastings and diet. If every disease is caused thru foreign matters
(and it most assuredly is) then it is only important and necessary to know how great and
how much the amount of the patient's encumbrance actually is-how far and how much
his  system  is  clogged  up  by  foreign  matters,  and  how  much  his  vitality  has  become
lowered (see Lesson 5), and, in case of tuberculosis or cancer, if the tissues themselves
are decomposed. (Pus and germs).

I  have  had  hundreds  of  cases  tell  me  that  every  doctor  they  called  upon  gave  a
different  diagnosis,  and  a  correspondingly  different  name  for  their  ailment  I  always
surprised them by saying, “I know exactly what ails you, thru facial diagnosis, and you
will see yourself in the ‘magic mirror’ within a few days”.
The Experimental Diagnosis
Just as I have already stated in the beginning of this lesson, you must fast for two or
three days. In the case of a fatty type, liquids should be used during the fast. The surface
of  the  tongue  will  clearly  indicate  the  appearance  on  the  inside  of  the  body,  and  the
patient's breath will prove the amount and grade of decomposition. It is even possible to
tell the kind of food they preferred most!
Should pain be felt at any one place during the beginning of the fast, you may be sure
that  this  is  a  weak  point  and  the  symptom  is  not  sufficiently  developed  for  medical
doctors to reveal it thru their examination.
Waste will show up in the urine with clouds of mucus, and mucus will be expelled
from the nose, throat and lungs as well as the feces. The weaker and more miserable the
patient  may  feel  during  the  fast,  the  greater  is  his  encumbrance,  and  the  weaker  his
vitality.
This experimental diagnosis tells you exactly what the trouble is, and how to correct it
by starting with a moderate transition diet-or a more radical one-and whether to continue
or discontinue the fast.
This  experiment  is  the  foundation,  the  basis  of  the  development  of  the  science  of
Nature cure, physics, chemistry, etc. It is the question put to Nature, and she replies with
the same infallible answer, always and everywhere.
If the patient becomes nervous, or symptoms of heart trouble occur, you may be sure
that he has drugs stored up in his body. A consumptive patient starts with such terrible
elimination,  after  a  short  fast,  that  it  must  be  plain  to  all  how  ignorant  and  how
impossible it is to try and cure him with “good nourishing foods”, such as eggs and milk.
The above explanation is the experimental diagnosis, and the only scientific one. You
cannot secure a better view inside than by this simple method. No expensive apparatus
can show more accurately the exact conditions as they exist inside the body. All other
examinations including iris-diagnosis, diagnosis of the spine, etc., are never exact and,
therefore, not dependable.
Nature's  mirrors,  her  revelations,  her  demonstrations—of  and  by  phenomena-are
“magic” only so long as you lack the correct interpretation of them. Nature show and
plainly reveals to you everything, far more exact, perfect and better than all “science of
diagnosis” put together.
The Prognosis of Disease
And now we come to the prognosis of disease. We hear of “latent” disease. Everyone,
no matter to what extent he may enjoy “good health”, has a latent sickness, and Nature
only awaits an opportunity to eliminate the waste stored up since childhood-and on.
Everyone  knows,  but  fails  to  understand,  that  a  severe  “shock”,  such  as  a  cold-or

“influenza”  over  the  entire  body,  starts  an  elimination;  but,  unfortunately,  Nature  is
handicapped in her attempted housecleaning, thru the doctor's advice to continue eating,
thru  the  use  of  drug,  etc., obstructing  elimination  and  producing  acute  and  chronic
diseases.
Anyone, even tho not sick-especially in the critical age between thirty and forty- may
fast a few days, and thru the “magic mirror”, learn the extent of his latent disease; where
his weak point is located, as well as the name of his latent disease, and where it will
appear.  That  is  the  prognosis  of  disease,  and  if  life  insurance  companies  would  only
believe in it, would furnish a true and safe method of determining “risks”.
Fasting  until  the  tongue  is  clean  is  dangerous.  Who  can  explain  why  the  tongue
becomes clean after breaking a short fast with a “square” meal, and why the “magic
mirror” shows up more waste, if you live on fruits or mucusless diet, after the fast? This
is the hitherto unexplained mystery of the “magic mirror”. And the simple explanation is
that the elimination is stopped for a while, thru the eating of wrong foods, and as a result
you feel better for a time with wrong foods than with fruits. And during this period even
the “magic mirror” apparently misleads you into thinking the body is clean. A return to
natural foods soon proves otherwise.
For  the  ordinary  person  it  will  require  from  one  to  three  years  of  systematically
continued fastings and natural, cleansing diet, before the body is actually cleansed of
“foreign matters”. You may then see how the body is constantly eliminating waste, thru
the entire outside surface of the body, from every pore of the skin, the urinal canal and
the colon, from the eyes and ears, and from the nose and throat. You can see how wet as
well as dried mucus (dandruff, for instance) is being expelled. All diseases, therefore, are
immense quantities of waste, “chronically” stored up and, thru this artificial elimination
of “chronic disease” you will agree with me and realize that I do not exaggerate when I
state:
The diagnosis of your disease-of all diseases of mankind both mental and physical,
since  the  beginning  of  civilization,  proves  that  they  all  have  the  same  foundational
cause-whatever the symptoms may be. It is, without exception, one and the same general
and universal condition-a one-ness of all disease, that is; waste, foreign matter, mucus
and its poisons.
“Internal impurity” is too mild an expression for chronic constipation, waste – filth –
mucus – stench (offensive odor) or “Invisible Waste”, is the true description.

The Formula of Life
LESSON V.
The Secret of Vitality
“V” = “P” – “O” (“V” equals “P” minus “O”) is the formula of life—and yet at the
same time you may call it the formula of death.
“V” stands for VITALITY.
“P”, or call it “X”, the unknown quantity in this question, is the POWER that drives
the human machinery, which keeps you alive, which gives you strength and efficiency,
endurance for as yet an unknown length of time without food!
“O” means OBSTUCTION, encumbrance, foreign matters, toxemias, mucus; in short,
all  internal  impurities  which  obstruct  the  circulation,  the  function  of  internal  organs
especially, and the human engine in its entire functioning system.
You can therefore see thru this equation that as soon as “O” becomes greater than “P”
the human machine must come to a standstill.
The engineer can figure exactly “E = P − F”, meaning that the amount of energy or
efficiency “E” he secures from an engine is not equal to the power “P” without first
deducting “F', the friction.
The ingenious idea of construction of the ideal engine is to make it work with the
smallest amount of friction. Should we transfer this fundamental and principal idea on
the human engine, we see that it involves the terrible ignorance of medical physiology
and that Naturopathy found a true way of healing by removing—eliminating obstructions
—that is, foreign matters of encumbrance, mucus and its toxemias.
But  just  what  vitality  really  is  and  how  tremendous  it  can  become,  what  a  higher,
superior, absolute health is, has not up to the present date been shown or proven. I will
teach in the following lessons a principally different NEW PHYSIOLOGY, based on the
correction of medical errors of blood-circulation, blood-composition, blood-building and
metabolism.  For  this  purpose  it  is  necessary  that  you  first  learn  what  vitality—what
animal life really is.
It is generally admitted, that the secret of vitality, the secret of animal life is unknown
to  science.  It  will  surprise  you  when  shown  the  truth  thru  a  simple,  natural
enlightenment, and you must admit at once that it is THE TRUTH. Always remember
this  fact:  “Whatever  can  not  be  seen,  conceived  at  once,  thru  simple  reasoning  is
humbug, and not science!”
The human engine must first be seen before all other physiological considerations as
an air-gas engine, built and constructed in its entirety, with the exception of the bones,
from a rubber-like, very elastic, spongy material, called flesh and tissues.
The next fact is that its function is that of a pump system by air-pressure, and with an
inside circulation of liquids, such as the blood and other saps, and that THE LUNGS
ARE  THE  PUMP  AND  THE  HEART  IS  THE  VALVE—and  not  the  opposite—as
erroneously taught by medical physiology for the past 400 years!

A  further  fact—one  that  has  been  almost  entirely  overlooked—is  the  automatic,
atmospheric  outside  counter-pressure,  which  is  over  14  pounds  to  the  square  inch.
Immediately upon, and after each outbreath a vacuum is created in the lung cavity. In
other words, the human body animal organism in its entirety, functions automatically by
inhaling  air-pressure  and  expelling  chemically  changed  air  and  outside  atmospheric
counter-pressure on the vacuums of the body. That is vitality, animal life in the first
instance and importance. That is “P” (power) which keeps you alive—without air you
cannot live five minutes!
But the unseen fact, let us say the secret, is that it works simply and automatically thru
atmospheric counter-pressure, which is only possible because the “engine” consists of
elastic,  spongy  material  with  a  vital  strain  power—with  an  ability  of  vibration,
expansion and contraction. Those two facts were the unknown secrets concerning the
automatic  function  of  “P”  as  the  phenomena  of  vitality,  and  the  Chemist  Hensel  has
proven  thru  chemical  physiological  formulas  that  this  special  vital  elasticity  of  the
tissues is due to a lime sugar combination.
The Latin word “spira” means first, air and then spirit: “The breath of God” is in fact
first, good fresh air! It has been said that breathing is life, and it is true that you develop
vitality, health, thru physical and breathing exercises. It is also true that you can remove
“O” (obstruction) by higher air-pressure and counter-pressure in this way. It is true that
you  remove  and  eliminate  obstructions  of  foreign  matter  by  local  and  constitutional
vibrations, consisting of all kinds of physical treatments. It is true that you eliminate
disease  matters  and  obstructions,  and  therefore  relieve  every  kind  of  disease  thru  an
artificial  speeding  of  the  circulation,  giving  more  “air-gas”  and  vibrating  the  tissues.
You increase “P” (power) artificially for a certain time, but you decrease the vital ability
of the function of counter-pressure, weakening the rubber like elasticity of the tissues. In
other words, you increase “P” but not “V”—to the contrary—this is done, and can be
done only at the expense of “V”. You know from experience what happens to a rubber
band continually kept stretched or over-expanded. It loses its elasticity.
You  relieve  diseases,  but  you  slowly  lower  vitality,  particularly  of  the  especially
elastic and spongy important organs of lung, liver, kidney, etc. You relieve but do not
heal  diseases perfectly;  you  lower  vitality,  just  so  long  as  you  loosen,  remove  and
eliminate obstructions, exclusively thru political means (agents) and just so long as you
do not stop the supply, the taking in of waste, of obstruction,—by wrong mucus-forming,
that is—disease-building unnatural foods, you lower vitality.
Would anyone attempt to clean an engine thru a continually higher speed and shaking.
No! You would first flush with a dissolving liquid and then change your fuel supply,
should it be a steam engine, and obstructions thru waste being caused through the coal
burning only partly.
This  involves  the  problem  of  dietetics,  which  culminates  in  the  solution  of  these
questions over its history: WHICH ARE THE BEST FOODS? Meaning, which foods give
most energy, endurance, health and increased vitality, or which foods are the basic cause
of diseased conditions and growing old? What is the essence of life, of vitality, breathing
exercise, activity—a perfect mind or right food?

My formula, the equation shown in the heading, gives the enlightening answer and
solves the problem in its entire mystery. Decrease “O” first by decreasing quantities of
food of all kinds, or even eliminate food entirely (fasting), if conditions tell you; second,
stop, or at least decrease by all means, obstruction-causing mucus-forming foods, and
increase dissolving, eliminating, obstruction-removing foods and you then increase “P”,
meaning  a  more  unobstructed  function  of  “P”  of  air-pressure,  of  the  infinite,
inexhaustible  power  source.  In  other  words,  the  problem  of  vitality  and  animal  life
functioning at all, consists in unobstructed, perfect circulation by air-pressure, and in a
vital elasticity of the tissues thru proper food as the necessary counter-pressure for the
function of life.
“P”  is  infinite,  unlimited,  and  practically  the  same  everywhere  and  on  everybody
continually the same, but its activity slows down in the tempo (speed) as you accumulate
obstructions, as you overeat and eat wrongly, lowering the automatic counter-pressure of
the tissues.
You may now see that vitality does not depend immediately, directly and primarily
from food or from a right diet. If you eat too much of the best foods, especially in a body
full of wastes and poisons, it is impossible for them to enter into your blood stream in a
clean state and become “efficiency-giving” vital substances. They are mixed with and
poisoned by mucus and auto-toxemias and actually lower vitality—they increase “O”
instead of “P”. You now see and you may realize very deeply that it is worthless to figure
food values with the intention of increasing “P” or “V” as long as the body is full of “O”.
The  problem  is  solved  by  my  system,  consisting  of  periodical  minor  fastings,
alternating  with  cleansing, not nourishing, mucus-less and mucus-poor menus. Not as
wrongly done with the idea that “V” is directly increased in a sick person thru feeding
clean  food.  Remove  “O”  thru  intelligent,  personally  prescribed  menus.  “P”  increases
automatically after a fast thru its unobstructed function. You can now realize how wrong
and insufficient it is for people to think that all there is to the “Mucus-less Diet” is
knowing the right foods!
Here, then, is the cause why so many “fasting”, “fruit-diet”, etc., “cures” fail. The
INEXPERIENCED LAYMAN ALWAYS COMES TO THE DEATH POINT. In other words, he removes
“O” too rapidly, too much at once and feels “fine” for awhile, the dissolving process
goes deeper—“O” increases—he feels terribly weak, falls back on wrong diet, and thru
this wrong diet stops the elimination of more obstructions, feels well again, blames the
good food for his weakness and sees the wrong food as the food of vital efficiency. He
loses his faith and tells you in all sincerity, “I have tried it, but it is wrong”. He blames
the  system,  entirely  ignorant  regarding  it,  when  he  lone  is  to  blame.  Here  is  the
stumbling block even of other diet experts and Naturopaths experimenting in dietetics.
Lesson 7 will divulge this secret.
Some have had more experiences, but very few think as I do that Vitality, Energy and
Strength is not derived from food at all! They believe it is acquired thru sleep, etc. What
I have learned and what I know thru years of experimenting, fasting and diet, and what I
have actually demonstrated can be found in my book, “Rational Fasting”, but briefly
stated, it is this:

First—Vitality does not depend primarily and directly upon food, but rather from the
facts of how far and how much the function of the human engine is obstructed—“clogged
up” by the obstructions of mucus and toxemias.
Second—Removing  “O”  by  artificially  increasing  “P”  thru  artificial  stimulants,
shaking and vibrating tissues thru physical treatments is always done at the expense of
“V”, Vitality.
Third—Vital  energy,  physical  and  mental  efficiency,  endurance,  superior  health  by
“P”, air and water alone, is tremendous, beyond imagination, as soon as “P” works and
can work without “O”-without obstruction and friction in a perfectly clean body.
Fourth—The limit of going without food and before solid food becomes necessary
under such ideal conditions, is yet unknown.
Fifth—The composition of “P”, besides air, oxygen and a certain quantity of water-
steam, increases—but only in a clean body—thru  the  following other agents from the
infinite:
ELECTRICITY; OZONE; LIGHT (especially sunlight); ODOR (good smells of fruit
and flowers).
Further, it is not impossible that under such clean, natural conditions, nitrogen of the
air may be assimilated.
In the following lesson I teach you a new  but true physiology  of  the body, which is
necessary to know in order to understand why and how the MUCUSLESS DIET HEALING
SYSTEM functions in its complete perfection, and for this purpose it was first necessary to
lift the veil from the secret, FROM THE MYSTERY OF VITALITY

The New Physiology
LESSON VI.
As you now know what Vitality is and how simply animal life functions automatically
by air-pressure and air counter-pressure (on fish, etc., it acts exactly the same, only by
water instead of air), you may realize that medical physiology, the science of animal
functions  is  fundamentally  wrong,  based  on  the  following  errors,  which  must  be
corrected by a New Physiology:
1.   The Theory of Blood Circulation.
2.   Metabolism or Change of Matter.
3.   High Protein Foods.
4.   Blood Composition.
5.   Blood Building.
The Error of Blood Circulation
Medical physiology, pathological physiology, continues to find diseases, the cause of
disease,  with  the  microscope.  The  germ  theory  is  now  “fashionable”.  Scientists  will
never  find  the  truth  and  never  understand  what  disease  is  as  long  as  they  have  a
fundamentally wrong conception of blood circulation.
As I have already explained, the fact has been overlooked that the lungs are motoric
organs  of  circulation,  and  the  circulating  blood  drives  the  heart—the  same  as  the
regulating  valve  in  an  engine.  That  the  blood  stream  drives  the  heart and  not  the
opposite, can be seen thru the two following facts:
1.     As  soon  as  you  increase  air-pressure  by  increased  breathing  you  speed  the
circulation and therefore the number of heart beats.
2.      As  soon  as  you  take  into  the  circulation  a  stimulating  poison  (alcohol  for
example) you increase the speed of the heart. As soon as you take a nerve and
“muscle-band”  paralyzing  poison  (for  example,  digitalis)  you decrease  the
speed of the heart. The medical profession has this exact knowledge, but in spite
of  their  knowledge  the wrong conclusion that a mysterious power acts on the
heart muscle driving the blood circulation is arrived at.
Prominent engineers among my patients agreed with my concept after learning this
new  physiology,  saying  that  the  heart  would  make  a  model  valve  for  any  kind  of  an
engine.
How  can  it  be  logically  proven  that  the  heart  controls  the  circulation  if  thru  the
circulating blood you can control the heart?
Increased air-pressure thru exercise, climbing a hill or running, increases heart action;
for the speed of the valve, as in an engine, depends upon the pressure.
Thirty  years  ago  a  Swiss  expert  of  physiology,  although  a  layman,  demonstrated,
evidently  with  animal  experiments,  that  a  circulation  as  taught  by  physiology  and  as

originated by Prof. Wm. Harvey in London 400 years ago, does not exist at all. Of course
no  attention  was  given  by  medicine  to  his  demonstrations.  How  can  a  “science”  be
erroneous?
Metabolism
Metabolism, or the “science of change of matter”, is the most absurd and the most
dangerous doctrine-teaching ever imposed on mankind. It is the father of the wrong cell
theory  and  of  that  most  erroneous  albumen  theory,  which  latter  theory  will  kill  and
stamp out the entire civilized Western world if its following is not stopped. It will kill
you, too, some day, if you fail to accept the truth that a continual albumen replacement is
unnecessary, and that you cannot gain vitality, efficiency and health by protein as long as
your  human  “engine”  must  work against obstructions, which are in fact, the cause of
death of all mankind of the Western civilization.
The erroneous idea that the cells of the body are continually used up by the process of
life  in  their  essential  substance  of  protein  and  must  be  continually  replaced  by  high
protein foods, can be and are evidently refuted by my investigations, experiments and
observations on some hundreds of fasters. The facts are as follows, and you will again
see that it is just as I teach and as I have experienced. What Medicine calls and sees, as
Metabolism is the elimination of waste by the body as soon as the stomach is empty.
Medicine actually believes that you live from your own flesh substance as soon as you
are fasting. Even Dr. Kellogg believes that the vegetarian becomes a meat-eater when he
fasts, and Naturopathy has taken over more or less in principle these medical errors. One
believes that the human engine cannot run a minute without solid food, protein and fat,
and makes the erroneous conclusion that man dies and must die from starvation as soon
as all his fat and protein is used up during a fast. I found and have this to state:
Lean people can fast easier and longer than fat ones. The Hindu fakir, consisting of
skin  and  bones,  the  leanest  type  in  existence,  can  fast  the  longest  time,  and  without
suffering. Where is there any “using up of the body” in this instance? I further found that
the cleaner the body from waste (mucus), the easier and longer one can fast. Therefore, a
fast has to be prepared by an eliminating and laxative diet. My world record of watched
fasting of 49 days could be done under the conditions imposed only after using a strict
mucusless diet during a long period of time. In other words, I could stand this long fast,
and you can stand a fast much easier and much longer the more the body is free from fat
—which is partly decomposed, watery flesh—the more the body is free from mucus and
poisons, which are eliminated as soon as eating is stopped, entirely or partly. The human
body  does  not  expel,  burn  up  or  use  up  a  single  cell  that  is  in  vital  condition!  The
cleaner, the more free from obstructions, from waste, the body is, the easier and the
longer you can fast with water and air alone! The limit where real starvation sets in is
yet  unknown!  The  Catholic  Church  claims  tests  of  holy  people  who  fasted  during
decades. But the medical error even grows by teaching Metabolism, claiming that you
must replace cells (which are not used up as you can plainly see), with high protein food
from  a  cadaver, partly decomposed meat, and which has gone thru a most destructive
heat process of cooking! That fact is that you accumulate more or less of the wastes in
your system in the shape of mucus and its poisons as the slowly growing foundation of
your disease and the ultimate cause of your death. Human imagination is evidently not

sufficient to conceive the tremendous foolishness of this doctrine and its consequences,
unmindful that its teachings are actually said to kill the individual and to finally kill all
mankind!
Medicine—and the average man, of course—also believes that you are growing flesh
and increasing health if you daily increase your weight by “good eating”. If the colon of
a so-called “healthy” fat man is cleaned of his accumulated feces, even though he has
“regular” stools, he at once loses from 5 to 10 pounds of the weight called “health”.
Weight  of  feces,  figured  by  doctors  as  health!  Can  you  imagine  anything  more
erroneous, more wrong, more foolish, and  at  the  same  time,  more  dangerous  to  your
health and life? That is Medical “Science” of Metabolism.

The New Physiology (Continued)
LESSON VII.
High Protein Foods
When the movement for Naturopathy and a meatless diet began in the last century, the
men  of  Medical  Science  were  endeavoring  to  prove  by  mathematical  figures  that
physical and mental efficiency have to be kept up thru daily replacement of protein with
a certain quantity for the average man. In other words, it became the vogue—it became a
mania, to suggest and to do exactly the opposite of Nature's laws whenever a person felt
weak, tired rapidly, became exhausted or sick in any way.
You now know thru Lesson 5 the source of Vitality and Efficiency and you now know
that without food at all, especially protein, the strength of a sick body can be increased.
High protein foods act as stimulation for a certain time, because they decompose at
once in the human body into poison. It is a commonly known fact that any kind of animal
substances  becomes  very  poisonous  as  soon  as  they  enter  an  oxidation  with  air,
especially at a higher temperature as exists in the human body.
The learned have gone so far as to prove that man belongs biologically in the class of
meat-eating  animals,  while  the  descendant  theory  proves  that  he  belongs  to  the  ape
family, who are exclusively fruit-eaters. You can see how ridiculous—contradictory—
so-called “science” is.
The  fundamental  fact  and  truth  of  why  the  grown-up  man  does  not  need  so  much
protein  as  the  old  physiology  claims,  is  shown  in  the  combination  of  mother's  milk,
which  does  not  contain  over  2  ½  to  3%  protein,  and  Nature  builds  up  with  that  the
foundation of a new body.
But the error goes further than that in their endeavor to replace something that is not
destroyed, not used up, not “consumed” at all—as you learned in the previous lesson
about  the  medical  error  of  Metabolism.  The  old  physiology  has  a  principally  wrong
conception of change of matter, because these “experts”, the founders of such a type of
science lacked knowledge of chemistry at all, and organic chemistry especially. Life is
based on change of matter in the meaning of physiological chemical transformation, but
never on the absurd idea that you must eat protein to build protein, to grow protein of
muscles and tissue. Most certainly not; for instance, is it necessary that a cow must drink
milk to produce milk! A prominent expert of physiological chemistry, Dr. von Bunge,
Professor  of  Physiological  Chemistry  at  the  University  of  Basel,  Switzerland,  whose
books  are  not  endorsing  the  average  standard  of  medical  teachings,  says  that  life,
vitality,  is  based  on  transformation  of  substances  (foods)  thru  which  power,  heat,
electricity becomes free and acts as efficiency in the animal body.
You will learn in the lesson about blood-building that a certain change of matter takes
place in the human body, and how protein is produced through transformation from other
food substances. This change of matter takes place not by a replacement of old cells by
new ones, but the mineral substances are the building stones of animal and vegetable
life, and the replacement is of much smaller quantities than as now taught.

The reason a “one-sided” meat-eater can live a relatively longer, certain time than the
vegetarian “starch-eater” is easy to understand after having learned Lesson 5. The first
one produces less solid obstructions by smaller quantities of meat-foods than the starch
“over-eater”  but  his  later  diseases  are  more  dangerous  because  he  accumulates  more
poisons, pus and uric acid.
If you know the truth about human nourishment—and you are going to learn it later—
you will be amused to note how the physiologists grope in darkness—how they made up
a standard quantity of necessary albumen for the average man, which standard, by the
way, is slowly getting smaller. They, and even advanced “diet experts”, estimate without
knowing the great unknown, i.e., the waste in the human body. For thousands of previous
years man has lived healthier without food value formulas and I doubt very much if a
single one of these physiologists ever gave his “chef” a suggestion of food values.
The entire proposition is a farce, masquerading as a so-called science. A few, like
Professor  Chittenden,  found  thru  experimenting  that  energy  and  endurance  increased
with  less  food—especially  less  protein.  Professor  Hindede  proved  that  albumen  need
hardly  be  considered,  and  Fletcher  outdid  them  all.  He  lived  on  one  sandwich  a  day
curing his so-called “incurable” disease and developed a tremendous endurance.
After I had overcome all fear as to fatal consequences that would befall me if I failed
to  adhere  strictly  to  “scientific  protein”  necessities,  I  found,  experienced  and
demonstrated the hitherto unknown and unbelievable fact that in the clean, mucus-free
and poison-free body these foods, poorest in protein—fruits—develop the highest energy
and an unbelievable endurance.
If nitrogen, the essential part of protein, is an important factor to keep the human
machine running, if vitality depends at all from nitrogen, then it seems to me that under
these ideal conditions nitrogen is assimilated from the air.
Food from the Infinite! “P” (power) as a source of nourishment! What tremendous
possibilities! I suggest that you read Lesson 5 over again, and you will realize these two
facts:
1.   The truth about human nourishment is still a “book with seven seals” to all
mankind, all so-called diet experts and scientific experts included.
2.   The error of high protein foods as a necessity of health, taught and suggested by
medical doctrines to mankind is in its consequences and in its effect just the
opposite of what it should be, it is one of the main and general causes of all
disease; it is the most tragical phenomena of western degeneration. It produced
at  the  same  time  the  most  dangerous,  most  destructive  habit  of  gluttony;  it
produced the greatest madness ever imposed on mankind, that is, to endeavor to
heal  a  disease  by  eating  more,  and especially  more  high  protein  foods.  It  is
beyond  possibility  to  express  in  words  what  the  error  of  high  protein  foods
means. Let me remind you that Medicine claims as the father of Medicine that
great  dietitian  Hippocrates,  who  said:  “The  more  you  feed  a  sick  person  the
more  you  harm  him”;  also:  “Your  food  shall  be  your  remedies  and  your
remedies your food”.
When  we  allow  the  body  to  become  clogged  with  mucus,  and  other  foreign

obstructions such as calcium, phosphates and similar waste materials, we may expect to
have high blood pressure overburdening the heart in its efforts to keep the blood stream
circulating properly.

The New Physiology (Continued)
LESSON VIII.
Blood Composition
The logical consequence of the first three errors of the Old Physiology is the problem
of  composition  of  human  blood,  not  only  as  it  should  be  but  as  a  fact  of  “scientific
examination”, the error is so great that it borders on insanity.
The  problem  is  this:  Are  the  white  corpuscles  living  cells  of  vital  importance  to
protect and maintain life, to destroy germs of disease, and to immunize the body against
fever, infection, etc., as the standard doctrines of physiology and pathology teach?
Or are they just the opposite—waste, decayed, undigested unusable food substances,
mucus or pathogen, as Dr. Thos. Powell calls them? Indigestible by the human body,
unnatural and therefore not assimilated at all? Are they, in fact, the waste from high
protein and starchy foods which the average mixed eater of western civilization stuffs in
his stomach three times a day? What I call “mucus” as the foundational cause of all
disease?
Pathology  proves  that  itself,  stating  that  the  white  corpuscles  are  increased  during
disease, and physiology says they increase during digestion in the healthy body, and that
they are derived from high protein foods.
This teaching is absolutely correct, and the logical consequence of the error of high
protein foods.
Medical “science” sees and must see it as normal conditions of health, and that the
non-sick must have these white blood corpuscles in his circulation because everybody
has them. There is no man in existence in the Western civilization whose body has not
been continually stuffed since childhood with cow milk, meat and eggs, potatoes and
cereal products. No man today without mucus!
In my first published article I promulgated the gigantic idea that the white race is an
unnatural, a sick, a pathological one. First, the colored skin pigment is lacking, due to a
lack of coloring mineral salts; second, the blood is continually over-filled by white blood
corpuscles, mucus, waste with white color; therefore the white appearance of the entire
body.
The skin pores of the white man are constipated by white, dry mucus; his entire tissue
system is filled up and filled out with it. No wonder that he looks white and pale and
anemic.  Everybody  knows  that  an  extreme  case  of  paleness  is  a  “bad  sign”.  When  I
appeared with my friend in a public air-bath, after having lived for several months on a
mucusless  diet  with  sun  baths,  we  looked  like  Indians,  and  people  believed  that  we
belonged to another race. This condition was doubtless due to the great amount of red
blood corpuscles and the great lack of white blood corpuscles. I can notice a trace of pale
in my complexion the morning after eating one piece of bread.
This is not the place to bring up all the arguments against this terrible error about the
nature and “function” of the white blood corpuscles believed erroneously by medical

“science”. Anyone  desiring  a  real  scientific  proof  regarding  this  may  read  Dr.  Thos.
Powell “Fundamentals and Requirements of Health and Disease”, published 1909, a few
years after my “mucus theory” was published in Europe, and later translated into English
in 1913 as “Rational Fasting and Regeneration Diet”, neither of us knowing anything
regarding each other's publication. Dr. Powell teaches in principle the same as I so far as
the  causes  of  all  diseases,  the  white  corpuscles  and  all  these  medical  errors  are
concerned. The only difference being that he calls “Pathogen” what I call “Mucus”.
In the method of elimination and diet, however, I differ principally and entirely from
him; but even in the composition of the red blood corpuscles, the blood plasma at all, the
blood serum and the so-called hemoglobin, medical “science” lacks perfection.
The two most important facts for us to know are these:
First—The much greater importance and vital necessity of iron in the human blood.
Second—The presence of sugar-stuff in the blood. That great expert of physiological
chemistry  and  mineral  salt  theory  founder,  Hensel,  says  in  his  book  “Life”:  “Iron  is
chemically  veiled  in  our  blood.”  Doctors  could  not  find  it  through  their  lack  of
knowledge in chemistry. On page 36 of the same book he says: “In our blood albumen is
a  combination  of  sugar-stuff  and  iron  oxide,  but  not  to  be  found  or  recognized
(discovered) in such a way that neither the sugar nor the iron can be found by ordinary
chemical tests. The blood albumen must be burned first to make the test perfect.”
I presume that the truth and importance is this: The red color of blood is the most
characteristic quality of this “quite special sap” and is due to iron-oxide, rust! Therefore,
it is self-evident how important iron is in the blood. Further, the sugar-stuff is of high
importance besides its nourishing quality, as it is an essential part in the perfect blood
hemoglobin, which if in a perfect state has to become thick, like gelatine, as soon as it
comes in contact with the atmospheric air for the purpose of closing a wound. Read in
my  book  “Rational  Fasting”  my  test  of  a  non-bleeding,  immediate  healing  wound
without secretion of pus and mucus, without pain and inflammation.
One truth regarding the conditions of the human blood found out by doctors is that
acidity is a sign of disease. It is no small wonder that this readily happens with the mixed
eater, when he fills the stomach daily with meat, starch, sweets, fruits, etc., all at the
same time.
Make a personal test if you are not fully convinced. Eat a regular dinner, and one hour
after eating get it out of your stomach, and you will have a sour fermenting mixture of a
terrible odor, reminding you of the garbage pail, and which when fed to hogs causes even
these animals to slowly become sick.
Or if you do not care to be so heroic try the following experiment: Next time you sit
down to your Sunday dinner have the menu served for an imaginary guest. Empty his
portion in a cooking vessel, using the same quantities as you are eating and drinking
yourself. Stir thoroughly. Then cook on an oven at blood heat for not less the 30 minutes.
Place cover on vessel and leave overnight. When you remove cover in the morning a
distinct surprise will await you.

The New Physiology (Continued)
LESSON IX.
Blood Building
The problem of blood building in the human body involves all problems of health and
disease.  In  other  words  your  health  and  disease  depend  almost  entirely  on  your  diet;
whether  you  eat  right  or  wrong  foods,  which  foods  harm  you,  thereby  building,
producing disease, and which foods heal and keep your body in ideal condition, which
ones build natural, good blood—and which ones build wrong, bad, acid, diseased blood.
These questions and their correct answers are the fundamentals of dietetics and of my
“Mucusless  Diet  Healing  System”.  In  this  lesson  I  teach  only  the  principal  truth  in
general. All particulars and details are covered in the entire course.
In fact, my diet of healing in its main and essential part, consists of building a new
perfect blood with continual “supply” from natural foods with vital elements thru which
the blood stream is enabled to dissolve and eliminate all waste, all mucus, all poisons
and all drugs ever taken during a lifetime, wherever and for as long a time as they may
have been “stored up” as latent disease in the body.
What  the  “official”  physiology  of  nourishment  teaches  for  best  blood  building  is
doubly wrong. First, principally as a problem of physiological chemistry. Second, from
the truth of Nature.
Here  again  I  must  quote  that  great  authority  of  physiological  chemistry,  Prof.  von
Bunge, who personally told me that he does not endorse official, medical teaching. Says
von Bunge: “Life is based on transformation of substances, thru which process power,
efficiency,  becomes  free,  just  as  it  takes  place  in  every  chemical  process  of
transformation from one chemical entity of atoms and molecules into another one.”
The  authors  that  started  physiological  science  lacked,  principally,  knowledge  in
chemistry due to a more humanistic education rather than in science of Nature. On the
other hand, inorganic chemistry was not sufficiently developed at this time.
The misleading idea was again protein. They reasoned as follows: Muscles, tissues,
the  entire  body's  essential  substance  is  protein;  therefore  this  substance  must  be
introduced into the blood in order to build, to grow. In other words, you must eat muscles
to build muscles, you must eat protein to build protein, you must eat fat to build fat, and
in the case of a nursing mother, she must drink milk to make milk!
As they believed and still believe in Metabolism, and the necessity of replacing every
day  the  used-up  cells,  these  principles  are  followed  in  the  diet  of  the  average  mixed
eater.
To take inorganic iron, lime, etc., in an endeavor to replace the same substance in the
human body is a similar error.
The  cow  builds  flesh,  tissues,  bones,  hair,  milk,  efficiency,  heat,  all  from  grass
exclusively. Feeding milk to a cow to increase milk production would be classed as the
height of folly, and yet man does this very thing with himself!

Today, every substance of the human body is chemically analyzed and doctors dream
of perfecting chemically concentrated food substances in the future, making it possible
for you to carry your meals in your vest pocket in sufficient quantities to last couple of
days. That will never happen, for the human body does not assimilate a single atom of
any food substance that is not derived from the vegetable or fruit kingdom.
All  manufactured  food  mixtures,  when  too  concentrated—either  of  the  animal  or
vegetable kingdom—do not build blood but stimulate only.
Animal  foods  cannot  build  good  blood;  in  fact,  do  not  build  human  blood  at  all,
because of the biological fact that man is by nature a fruit eater. Look at the juice of a
ripe blackberry, black cherry or black grape. Doesn't it almost resemble your blood? Can
any reasonable man prove that half decayed “muscle tissues” build better blood?
Just as soon as the animal is killed the flesh is more or less in decomposition. Then
they are put thru the destructive process of cooking. No meat-eating animal can remain
healthy on cooked meat; they must eat it fresh and raw—blood, bones and all.
Most complete details about the right and natural foods will be taught later, and you
will learn the truth. I will only mention at this time one important fact which is essential
in  my  dietetical  teaching,  and  by  which  I  differ  from  all  others,  even  from  other
dietetical experts who still believe in concentrated albumen, concentrated mineral salts,
etc., being required for good blood building.
Albumen is not the most important substance for our blood, nor is it mineral salts
alone which build perfect blood. The cardinal standard substance for man's blood is the
highest developed form of carbon hydrate, chemically called sugar-stuff, grape or fruit
sugar  as  contained  more  or  less  in  all  ripe  fruits,  and  in  the  next  lower  state  in
vegetables. The newer advanced science teaches that even the small amount of protein
that is necessary is developed from grape sugar in the animal and human body. All cereal
and vegetable eating animals transform these foods, first into grape sugar, and them as a
matter of fact the body in its entirety.
But the essential point of disagreement regarding this particular problem is not in the
food,  blood-building  problem.  Whoever  does  not  know  disease—latent,  acute  and
chronic, as taught in Lesson 5, will never believe in the truth of human nourishment.
As you now know thru past lessons, just as soon as the blood is improved thru fruits,
the average man starts at once the elimination of obstructions—feels better for awhile,
but  when  more  and  more  waste  is  dissolved  and  with  the  resultant  next  shock  of
obstruction in the circulation, all faith is lost, and he, the doctor and all others blame the
lack of “efficiency” food. He thinks, and everyone suggests, that he needs “regular food”,
which when eaten stimulates him for awhile and causes him to believe that it must be the
meat and eggs that build good blood.
In  other  words,  the  problem  of  blood  building  thru  the  right  and  proper  food,  the
dietetical problem in its entirety will not be solved and the truth will not be accepted nor
believed and practiced by those who have not learned what happens, and just what it
means to heal by the new and real blood building foods.
This is the deeper cause why doctors believe in and recommend destructive foods, and

why the average man keeps them up and increases them continually, for he does not
possess the slightest idea of what disease is, and how he daily pollutes his blood.

Critique of All Other Healing Systems
and Unbiased, Unprejudiced Reviews
LESSON X.
The methods of healing are numberless. Outside of a great domination of superstition
in this field, the serious methods can be divided into two principally different classes:
1. Medicine; 2. Drugless Healing.
The history of medicine shows that, especially in the past, drugs and other mysterious
“inventions”  were  taken  from  “quacks”.  A  great  number  of  “medicines”,  “standard
remedies”,  (for  example,  mercury)  were  first  introduced  by  “quacks”.  The  modern
serums, etc., are no better regardless of their being “scientifically” prepared.
As we now know exactly what disease is, we may understand a fact medicine cannot
explain, and that is WHY symptoms of disease can be suppressed by drugs and serums to
a certain limit. The “results” are known only thru experiences, but medicine does not
know why these results—“special effects”—happen.
This  is  the  secret:  If  the  body  of  any  sick  man  endeavors  to  eliminate  poisons
manifested by any kind of symptoms and a new and dangerous poison is introduced into
the circulation, the elimination thru the symptoms is more or less stopped because the
body instinctively sets to work to neutralize these poisons as far as it is possible. The
symptoms return just as soon as the life is saved, and the same procedure is repeated
until the patient dies or—if intelligent enough—casts medicine aside in time and seeks
to save himself by;
Drugless Healing
The methods of Drugless Healing are also very numerous, and they can be divided into
three parts;
1.   Physical Treatments.
2.   Mental Treatments.
3.   Dietetical Treatments.
Physical Treatments
In  general,  all  physical  treatment  have  a  tendency  to  loosen  local  constitutional
encumbrances thru various kinds of vibrations and thermal differences. The Kneipp cure,
for instance, is in fact an application of artificial colds which stimulates the circulation
and thru that, the elimination.
Exercise  (calisthenics),  breathing  exercises,  massage,  osteopathy,  mechano-therapy,
etc., perform in principle, the same. Chiropractic, however, claims a special “scheme”.
The subluxation is removed, but Chiropractics, similarly to Drugs, may give immediate
successful relief from painful symptoms, but as a matter of fact they return sooner or
later if the adjustments are discontinued, and wrong method of living is persisted in. The
cause  of  subluxation  is an accumulation of foreign matters  between  the  bones  of  the
spine, and we know that they have their source thru wrong eating, the same as all other

symptoms  of  disease.  No  doubt  the over-weight  of  the  average  man,  in  general, is
another  cause  of  subluxation.  Under  longer  fastings  I  saw  many  deformed  spines
improve wonderfully.
There  are  various  other  methods  used  to  shake  the  tissues  and  stimulate  the
circulation, i.e., electricity, electric light, sunlight, etc. All of these methods help and
relieve, more or less, but they can never heal perfectly just as long as they fail to pay
sufficient attention to a correct diet; in other words, the elimination of disease or foreign
matters  will  never  be  complete  as  long  as  the  intake  thru  wrong  foods  is  not
discontinued, and an entirely new blood-building is established thru real, natural and
clean, mucusless foods.
Mental Treatments
It cannot be denied that the condition of the mind has an influence on every kind of
disease. It is proven that fear, sorrows and worries have a bad influence, not only on the
heart and nerves, but on the circulation, digestion, etc. Psychotherapy, Mental and Divine
Healing,  Christian  Science,  have  this  one  great  advantage—they  save  the  unfortunate
sick from the injuries of drugs! On the other hand, I cannot grant them too much credit,
for  while  they  are  harmless  in  a  certain  sense,  they  have  a  tendency,  consciously  or
unconsciously, to keep people in complete darkness as to what disease really is.
We who know exactly what disease is, cannot agree with a teaching that endeavors to
make sick people believe they can be healed by a miracle, or a forced imagination—that
they  are  not  sick  at  all—even  though  they  are  actually  dying  that  very  minute!  It  is
farcical, not to say pitiful, to pray to the Creator for a miraculous healing, rejecting and
disregarding real divine foods—the fruits of the paradise—the “bread of heaven”, and
instead stuff your stomach three times daily with harmful prepared foods, manufactured
by man for commercial purposes, and never destined by the Creator to be man's food at
all.
It is rather difficult to believe in Mental Healing at all, after knowing as I do thru
actual experiences with thousands of patients, that the average chronic sick, especially
the well fed one, is in fact a “living cesspool”. Nature is the manifestation of the divine
laws, and there are no miracles in Nature. If you have eaten wrong for 30, 40, 50 years,
thereby producing your disease, you must do the necessary compensation as reparation
for your sins, you must do the opposite by eating clean, natural, divine food, which will
produce health instead of disease. That is as clear as sunlight, and as logical 2 × 2 = 4.
The  philosophy  of  Mrs.  Eddy  is  a  poor  copy  of  Schopenhauer's  “World  of
Imagination”—that  the  mind  only  is  real,  and  not  the  physical.  Her  logic  would  be
correct if she had said: “It was never the intention, nor in the plan of God to produce
disease,  but  as  a  logical  consequence,  thru  disobedience  of  the  divine  laws  of  life,
disease is produced.” There could be no disease if men would live right, in accordance
with  the  divine  story  of  the  Genesis  arguments.  In  the  light  of  evolution  we  may
understand the true meaning of the Lord, even when He says He “will punish and kill
them till they come back to Him”. In plain instead of mysterious words, you and all
mankind will suffer and die from disease as long as you fail to return again to the laws of
the Creator, to the laws of Nature, as man lived in paradise.

Practitioners of the “Mucusless Diet Healing System” should avail themselves of the
knowledge  already  gained  and  live  on  mucusless  foods,  the  divine  clean  food  of  the
Genesis, fruits and green-leaf vegetables (called herbs), so that they may demonstrate the
truth as living examples.
This will aid the patient to learn and believe the truth as exemplified by yourself, and
free his mind from all wrong and superstitious ideas about disease, as well as from all
doubts  about  the  one  and only  way  of  real  help,  the  compensation  of  his  disease-
producing habits.
You must heal, that is, free the patient's brain from all ignorance, and lift his mind
with the light of truth so that he may have unshaken faith to follow your advice with
enthusiasm! That is the true essential for “mental healing”.

Confusion in Dietetics
LESSON XI.
In this very important lesson it is necessary for me to convince you, once and for all,
of the following fact:
First—That in food (in diet) lies 99.99% of the causes of all diseases and imperfect
health of any kind.
Second—That consequently, all healing, all therapeutics will continue to fail as long
as they refuse to place the most important stress on diet.
Third—That  what  I  call  “mucusless  diet”  and  “mucus  forming  foods”  divides
characteristically  all  human  foods  into  harmless,  natural,  healing  and  real  nourishing
foods, and into harmful, disease-producing ones.
Fourth—That all other dietetics are mainly wrong because they lay their stress on food
values entirely, whether “wrong” or not, instead of the healing, cleaning, eliminating
values  and  their  efficiency  before  the  healing  process  is  started,  going  on  or
accomplished at all. (See Lesson 5.)
The dietetical problem, “What shall man eat to be healthy or to heal his disease”, is in
fact the problem of life, as little as it is considered or even known as the most important
question. Long ago I coined the following phrase; “Life is a tragedy of nutrition.” The
confusion and ignorance regarding what to eat is in fact so great that it must necessarily
be called the “missing link” of the human mind.
That  medical  science  and  even  so-called  “natural”  therapeutics,  see  dietetics  in
general  as  a  secondary  question  of  healing,  is  significant.  Even  the  efficiency  of  a
machine depends upon the quality and amount of its fuel. There is no longer any doubt
existing  regarding  the  fact  that  a  plant  depends  more  on  the  kind  of  soil  rather  than
climate to produce a high quality of fruit. Farmers understand thoroughly that everything
depends on what they feed their live stock. Health and disease of the animal and human
body is 99.99% dependent on food. This is tremendously manifested by Nature thru the
simple fact that every animal refuses food when sick. The animal instinct of responding
to every disease or even accident by fasting is Nature's demonstration that health and
disease  depend  mainly  and  entirely  from  eating  or  not  eating,  as  well  as  the  kind  of
foods.
That  the  average  man,  and  even  the  reformed  doctors,  blame  everything  on  earth,
excepting food, as the cause of their disease is due to the tragical fact that disease is as
yet a mystery in their minds. They don't know (and speaking for the doctors, they don't
want to learn), how terribly unclean the inside of the body is, caused thru the life-long
habit  of  over-eating  ten  times  as  much  as  required—in  many  cases  harmful  foods
mostly, or even exclusively.
If the average eater, even in so-called “perfect health”, fasts 3 or 4 days his breath and
the  entire  body  as  well  as  his  discharges  are  of  an  offensive  odor  which  signifies,
demonstrates  and  indicates  that  his  system  is  filled  up  with  decayed,  uneliminated
substances  brought  in  thru  no  other  manner  than  by  eating.  This  accumulated  and

continually increasing waste is his latent, unknown “disease”, and when Nature wants to
eliminate by any kind of a “shock”, commonly known as disease, he first tries everything
to “heal” himself, excepting to fast, to stop increasing the cause of the disease, the inside
waste.
You have now learned how wrong medical practice is, trying to stop Nature's healing,
eliminating process, called disease, and thereby increasing the inside waste thru drugs
and  serums.  But  “natural”  therapeutics  of  all  kinds  of  elimination  will  never  heal
perfectly just so long as you fail to discontinue the supply of inside waste caused by
eating and “wrong” eating. You may clean, and continue to clean indefinitely, but never
with complete results up to a perfect cleanliness, as long as the intake of wrong or even
too much right foods, is not stopped.
If it is a fact that food alone is chiefly to blame for all disease—as Nature so clearly
demonstrates—then  it  is  logical  and  self-evident  that  you  can  heal  only  by  diet;  and
radically only, if necessary, with the most rational diet; fasting—Nature's only “remedy”
in the animal kingdom.
Therefore, if any kind of diet shall heal it must consist of food, not according to food
values  as  to  their  nourishing  and  rebuilding  qualities,  but  according  to  qualities  of
healing, of cleansing and of elimination.
Here is the cardinal reason why, as well as where, all other dietetics fail. My diet of
healing, the “Mucusless Diet”, divides, as stated above, all foods strictly into two kinds;
certain ones which heal and certain ones which produce disease.
It is not sufficient, as the layman imagines, to know which foods are mucusless and
which are mucus-forming, but:
1.   HOW FAR AND HOW FAST THE CHANGE CAN SUCCESSFULLY BE MADE.
2.   HOW THE COMBINATION OF DIFFERENT FOODS HAS TO BE ARRANGED.
3.      HOW  LONG  AND  HOW  OFTEN  FASTING  MUST  BE  INTRODUCED  AND  COMBINED
DURING THE HEALING DIET IF FOUND NECESSARY.
This is and represents the “SYSTEM” of the Mucusless Diet and Fasting as well as
what the Practitioner has to study and must learn, and what the layman does not know
and consequently why he must inevitably fail when trying to cure himself with “good
foods”.
After the foregoing explanation you will at once see in the following critique of the
best known dietetics, why they are imperfect, and why the confusion is so great. In later
lessons you will also learn of every kind of food, why it is good, and why bad. In case
you are still unaware of the foods which are mucusless, and which mucus-forming, they
are as follows:
All fruits, raw or cooked; also nuts and green-leaf vegetables are mucus-free.
All  other  foods  of  civilization, without exception, are mucus and acid-forming, and
therefore are harmful.

Confusion in Dietetics (Continued)
LESSON XII.
The  average  vegetarian  diet  omits  only  meat  from  the  menu,  and  their  mixture  of
larger quantities of fruits (good foods) with eggs and milk cause over-eating—in most
cases being worse than moderate meat-eating, and a “less mixed” diet.
Three prominent physicians improved the vegetarian diet, but they fail like all other
dietitians on the following single point. They believe, more or less, in high protein foods
during  the  diet  of  healing.  In  other  words,  all  dietitians  without  a  single  exception,
outside of myself, think that the body, and especially the sick and weak one, requires
“good, nourishing food” to be healed—overlooking the fact that Nature alone heals, and
does it best by fasting. (Please read Lesson 5 again, so that you may fully comprehend
the reason.)
Dr.  Lahmann,  a  German  physician,  proved  in  his  “The  Dietetical  Disformation  of
Blood”, that carbonic acid is the cause of all diseases, but he failed to see the deeper
cause, the fermentation caused thru mucus-forming foods mixed with fruits. He believed
in, and fell a victim to, the protein theory in spite of his greatly advanced knowledge.
Dr.  Haigh,  an  English  physician,  with  his  “Anti-uric  acid  diet”  showed  much
improvement, but failed in the same manner as Dr. Lahmann.
Dr. Catani, an Italian physician, made up a diet of fruits, green vegetables and meat,
eliminating all starch, and healed, more or less, including cases of rheumatism and gout,
while  Dr.  Haigh  blamed  meat solely  for  these  diseases.  The  secret  of  Dr.  Catani's
starchless diet is its laxative effect. It relieves like the laxatives contained in mineral-
water springs, but does not heal perfectly. You can see where the point of confusion lies.
Dr.  S.  Graham,  an  American  physician,  whose  “Physiology  of  Nourishment”  was
fundamental at the time, improved the bread especially; but the improvement consists
not in the fact that Graham, Bran and Whole Wheat bread is more valuable than ordinary
white bread, but thru its efficiency owing to a less constipating quality than white bread.
White  flour makes good paste,  Graham  or  Whole  Wheat  flour does not.  Dr.  Graham
found an opponent in Dr. Densmore of England, who claimed that overeating of bran,
whole cereals and graham bread caused inflammation of the intestines. This is, of course,
and  exaggeration,  but  Dr.  Densmore  helped  the  general  improvement  of  dietetics  by
advocating more fruits and vegetable.
Dr. Lahmann, the German chemist Hensel, and some authorities in this country, are
the  founders  of  what  may  be  called  “the  mineral  salt”  movement.  The  stress  in  this
dietetic reasoning is placed upon the fact that all acid and mucus forming foods lack the
necessary mineral salts. But it proved a fad like the protein fad, thinking health could be
regained  by  overflowing  the  body  with  artificially  manufactured  mineral-salt
preparations, and keeping up your old wrong habits at the same time. You improve—
relieve to a certain limit, but never heal perfectly.
In a later lesson you will learn how the chemist Ragnar Berg improved this “system”
to a certain degree. He neutralizes acid-forming foods with mineral-salt-rich ones. At

present among the vegetarian health-seekers “raw food diet” is in fashion. No doubt it
represents great progress, but the arguments are partly wrong and lead to mistaken and
fanatic extremes.
They claim all cooking destroys food values, but it should properly be said: “Wrong
cooking destroys healing value qualities (efficiency) of foods, and can even cause them
to become acid-forming.” The “raw food” experts hint on the same wrong stress, as all
others, i.e., the higher food value.
The entire effect or benefit from raw food is the rough fiber of uncooked vegetables,
which relieves constipation, and acts as an ideal “mucus broom” in the intestines. I do
not believe that the human body assimilates “food-value vegetables” such as cauliflower,
asparagus, turnips, potatoes, or cereals in their uncooked state. After a certain beneficial
mechanical cleansing of the bowels thru these raw foods the one-sided raw-food eater
lacks, in fact, the most important food substance, and that is grape or fruit sugar, unless
he eats sufficient fruits.
Significant and instructive is this experiment. Put a lemon in a moderate dry heat a
few minutes, and it becomes sweet, like an orange. You develop grape sugar; but let it
bake  a  little  too  long,  or  if  cooked,  it  becomes  bitter.  On  the  same  principle  all
vegetables when baked improve by developing into grape sugar the more or less starch
they contain. This is true of carrots, beets, turnips, cauliflower, etc.
Raw fruits and, if desired, raw green-leaf vegetables form the ideal food of man. That
is  the  mucusless  diet.  But  the  mucusless  diet  as  a  healing  system  uses  raw,  rough
vegetables for their cleansing qualities, baked ones as food, and baked and stewed fruits
AS A LESS AGGRESSIVE DISSOLVER of poisons and mucus to MODERATE THE ELIMINATION IN
SEVERE CASES. This is one of the most important principles of the system, a point the
raw-food fanatic ignores entirely. Eating raw potatoes, raw cereals and unfired pies is, in
my opinion, absurd and worse than if they are carefully baked, which means developing
the starch into at least partly digestible gluten and grape sugar.
Fletcherism
The American,  Horace  Fletcher,  developed  a  complete  dietetical  healing  system  in
itself with great success on himself and others. His theory was to eat whatever kind of
food you desired, but chew every bite 10 to 15 minutes. You may eat one sandwich a day
and  get  rid  of  your  trouble.  The  secret  is  simply  this:  It  is  a  camouflaged  fast;  the
stomach and intestines have a rest the same as when fasting, and elimination is promoted
and the vital organs recuperate. But when continued longer the bowels constipate from a
lack of solid food, and it is said that Fletcher himself died thru severe “trouble” in these
organs.
Another camouflaged fast in its effect is the Salisbury cure. A small piece of beefsteak
and a little toast, once a day, nothing else. Relieves, improves, but never heals perfectly.
Under the same classification is the milk diet, which puzzles even the most advanced
experts of fasting and dietetics by its partial success in many cases. The secret is this: If
you replace three “square” meals a day consisting of at least three courses each, with a
few quarts of milk (liquid) the obstructions in the human engine are much less (read
Lesson 5), you feel better and the body partially eliminates and, in many cases, relieves

your  trouble.  But  all  milk-dieting  patients  suffer  sooner  or  later  from  terrible
constipation because milk is a first-class, sticky mucus-former.
Schroth Cure
This so-called “dry cure”, founded by one of the great pioneers of Naturopathy, is in
its effect also a camouflaged fast. Three days eating nothing else other than dry bread,
with NOTHING TO DRINK; the fourth day unlimited drink of light wine and some food,
combined with all-night wet packs. This causes a tremendous elimination, if you can
stand the severity of this “horse cure”. Schroth had marvelous success and a world-wide
reputation,  but  many  who  had  gone  thru  this  quick  help  many  times  came  to  my
sanitarium and I found they had very weak hearts and lacked more or less the elastic
efficiency  of  the  tissues.  Read Lesson 5 again, and you will understand the reason at
once. I use the same principles of this cure in an improved form in cases where there was
no reaction with a drink fast or by the mucusless diet as follows: Two or three days
nothing but dried fruits followed by one day of juicy fruits and starchless vegetables
produces  a  most  efficient  elimination,  but  is  only  advisable  for  relatively  “strong”
people.
There are hundreds of other dietetical cures on the “market”, and every once in a while
one of them becomes fashionable; from the long fast and “fruit fast” up to the so-called
“scientifically prepared” mixtures of medical and non-medical dietitians. The average
health seeker thinks that there is some special food or special mixture to be eaten for his
particular  ailment  and  he  tries  everything—but  always  in  vain,  as  long  as  he  doesn't
know  and  doesn't  understand  that  there  is  but  one  disease—inside  dirt,  waste  and
obstructions, and that these obstructions must and can be systematically eliminated only
by the very opposite of the disease-producing, mucus forming foods, that is, by “THE
MUCUSLESS-DIET  HEALING  SYSTEM,”  a  mucusless  diet,  consisting  of  fruits  and  herbs,
meaning green-leaf vegetables, considered “unfashionable” since the time of Moses, that
great Dietician and Faster (see Genesis).
The more we learn about Natural laws that rule and govern our health—the less we
need fear the destructive onslaught of disease. Only thru a mucus-free diet can we expect
to eliminate the accumulation of waste and obstructions deposited in the body tissues
during  a  lifetime  of  wrong  eating.  Give  the  body  a  clean  blood  stream  and  it  will
function harmoniously as Nature intended it should.

Confusion in Dietetics (Continued)
LESSON XIII.
After the severe critique of all important dietetics I must admit that I do not deny that
all of them possess, and have done, considerable good towards the development of the
dietetical solution of the food problem and healing of diseases by diet.
Reviewing the entire development during the past 25 years this fact remains: With the
progress  of  chemistry,  medical  experts  arrive  at  the  following  conclusion:  “We  now
know exactly all of the elements contained in the human body, and therefore know what
must be eaten for upbuilding, for replacement of used-up cells and for producing vitality,
efficiency, strength and heat.”
You  were  taught  in  former  lessons  why  these  “conclusions”  are  wrong  and  have
produced  the  “protein”  fad  and  later  the  “mineral  salt”  fad,  and  now  the  very  latest
fashion,  i.e.,  the  “raw  food”  fad.  Without  knowledge  of  the  “great  unknown”  their
conclusions  must  be  wrong.  This  great  “unknown”—unknown  to  the  chemical  and
medical  experts—unknown  to  the  average  man  and  health-seeker—unknown  to  the
layman dietitian—unknown to the general dietetical systems now in vogue—this “great
unknown”  is  “O”  in  my  formula,  “V”  equals  “P”  minus  “O”—the  waste,  the  mucus;
acids and poisons, the;
Obstruction, or “O”
in the sick, and also in the average so-called “healthy” human body.
In other words, if human nourishment could ever be figured by mathematical chemical
formulas telling exactly what to eat, you will still be fooled by Nature—just so long as
any ideal food is mixed with and put into this waste of mucus and acids already in the
human system thru years of wrong living. Nature confuses you—so long as you fail to
recognize  her  facts  and  her  truths—but  Nature  herself  is  not  fooled.  To  the  average
layman raw food reacts more or less mysteriously—as long as it is mixed with your own
mucus—as long as it stirs up mucus and its toxemias in the unclean diseased body and
eliminates  these  poisons.  All  laymen  and  experts  covering  the  entire  dietetical
movement up to the present time are puzzled, confused, ignorant and still in complete
darkness  of  the  fact  that  in  general  the  average  man first becomes worse,  sometimes
developing boils and all kinds of sores—“troubles” up to “indigestion” just as soon as he
starts what he believes is a correct and best diet, living on a radical fruit, mucusless or
raw-food diet.
“Tell me what to eat”, wails the sick, “I want a daily menu for my special disease”
(like  a  drug  prescription),  and  he  then  considers  that  as  all  sufficient.  When  the
elimination sets in he says: “These foods don't agree with me”, instead of recognizing
that the transition-diet has already started in a moderate way to dissolve and to eliminate
the  old  waste  in  the  body—with  some  disturbance,  of  course. You  must  make  them
realize  the  necessity  of  putting  up  with  this  temporary  inconvenience,  and  consider
themselves  fortunate  indeed  to  be  able  to  continue  with  their  daily  work  instead  of
undergoing an operation, which would mean months in a hospital. The foods agree with
them, but they do not agree with the foods.

Now you may understand why the “Mucusless Diet” is a system in which every change
in diet has certain duties to perform—as a diet of healing to be applied systematically
according to the condition of the sick.
You  will  now  understand  why  and  in  what  manner  I  differ  from  all  others.  The
“Mucusless  Diet  Healing  System”  is  not  a  collection  of  different  menus  for  every
disease; it is not “made-up” combinations of valuable and nourishing foods—it is not
like a medical prescription or a compilation of standard diets suitable for all diseases,
but  it  is  a  system  of  dietetical  changes  and  dietetical  improvements—a  system  of
dietetical elimination of disease matter, waste, mucus and poisons; a system of slowly
changing and improving the diet as a diet of healing towards—and up—to the ideal and
natural  food  of  man—FRUITS  ONLY—or  fruits  and  green-leaf  vegetables—THE
MUCUSLESS DIET.
It is therefore a personally supervised and in every case different, modified, scientific,
systematical,  progressive  method  of  “eating  your  way  to  health”,  combined  if  found
necessary, with short or longer fasts.
It is a healing process thru which every sick person must go if he wants to be perfectly
healed;  it  is  an  exclusive  dietetical  “curing  and  healing,  rebuilding  and  regenerating
process” based on the use of harmless and natural food for mankind “coined” and set
biologically by the Creator in “Genesis”—“FRUITS AND HERBS” , or ‘MUCUSLESS DIET”.
Nature will do her part if we but give her half a chance. Try it out for yourself and watch
for results.

Ragnar Berg's Tables
LESSON XIV.
You can now understand that the dietetical problem is not solved as the average man
imagines thru simply knowing which foods are best and the kind of foods the mucusless
diet consists of. You were taught in the previous lesson knowledge unknown to all others
—what happens and what must happen in the human body if the sick man eats only the
“best  foods”  or  takes  a  long  fast.  Later,  you  will  learn  how  this  stirring  up  and
eliminating  of  mucus  by  “good  foods”  and  fasting  can  and  must  be  controlled  by
yourself, the treating physician or dietician.
You may now see of what little value and how injurious it may become for the average
health-seeker to stuff his stomach daily with terrible mixtures of “good food”, “raw food
combinations” (in the belief that raw food alone will restore health), without any plan or
system—without any regard of the disease and his mental or physical condition.
In spite of my antipathy towards “faddists” I will submit a selection of tables prepared
by one of the most advanced experts of physiological chemistry, Ragnar Berg, of the
special laboratory for food research at Dr. Lahmann's sanitarium of Germany.
Berg's deductions are as follows:
That  you  must  eat  as  much  mineral  salt-containing,  non-acid  producing,  alkaline
containing  foods  as  necessary  to  bind,  neutralize,  compensate  the  harmful  acids
contained in the acid-producing foods which make up the average man's daily menu. In
other words, if you want to eat meat, eggs, nuts, milk and starchy foods, you must also
eat fruits and starchless vegetable to be healthy. It is surprising to note that the majority
of foods he calls “acid forming” is what I call “Mucus forming”, and what he calls “acid
binding”, that is, non-acid food, is almost exactly what I call “mucusless”.
His tables are undoubtedly the best in existence, and their value for us consists in the
knowledge of the good and the bad qualities of every food in percentage. He calls it
positive and negative properties. You will perhaps be further surprised to note that he
endorses  and  proves  by  scientific  analysis  that  my  classification  of  harmful  foods,
mucus-forming  and  non-mucus  forming  ones  or  mucusless  diet,  is  correct  and
scientifically perfect! He proves scientifically what I had long before found out, that
every food, which contains and produces mucus after decaying in the system produces at
the same time acid. Very remarkable—and important for us to know—is what he found
concerning fertilizing and also the result of the average cooking of foods.
Ordinary fertilizing by animal and human excrements, or even by too much minerals
(sulphuric  acid  ammoniac  and  superphosphate  and  by  over-irrigating)  changes  the
positive  good  properties  into  negative  “bad  ones”,  or  at  least  decreases  the  good
qualities. The grower secures the advantage as they look attractive, are of good size and
weight and consequently bring a good market price, costing the consumer more for food
that is really harmful.
This likewise happens thru wrong cooking in too much water—the good qualities go
into the water and the present day cook throws these valuable mineral salts away.

As  much  more  fertilizing  is  done  in  Europe  than  in  this  country,  you  can  readily
understand  why  specially  fertilized,  rapidly  growing  vegetables  such  as  asparagus,
cabbage, cauliflower, etc., show less value than may be the case with the same variety of
vegetables grown here.
In explanation of his tables, Berg states:
“To these various methods of changing healthy foods into poisons belong sulphuring
dry  fruits,  using  benzoid  of  soda  or  salicylic  acid  (both  strong  poisons)  to  preserve
canned foods from fermentation. The most dangerous one is the method of using the
steam of sulphuric acid.”
Imagine, if you will, how people are fooled by the showing of big fruit and splendid
looking vegetables—nice bright looking, sulphured fruits.
“The American eats with his eyes”, says Dr. Harry Ellington Brook, “preferring snow
white bread, a real starvation food, robbed by refined milling of all mineral salts”—one
of the highest negative foods in Berg's table.
Especially  when  packed  in  expensive  showy  paper  boxes  he  considers  it  best,  and
willingly pays higher price, little realizing that he is actually “eating his way to death”
with these “perfectly combined foods” of modern commerce.
Ragnar Berg's tables of food analysis showing the positive or good properties and the
negative or bad properties in percentage proves how much acid a food produces (at the
same time the amount of mucus) and the percentage of mineral salts of the special kind
of alkaline to neutralize acids.
From my standpoint you can see the:
Qualities of a food in percentage to “stir up”, dissolve, neutralize and eliminate mucus
together with its terrible acid poisonings, stored up in the system since childhood.
These tables by Ragner Berg were published in Germany 10 years after my “mucus
theory” of disease and food qualities had been taught, and Berg unconsciously gave the
scientific proof that my “mucus theory” is correct.
The mere fact that some foods given in the list are “acid-binding” does not necessarily
mean  that  I  endorse  their  use. This list is given as a comparison only and should be
studied for what it is worth. Please understand that I am not endorsing Berg's theories.
Undoubtedly by squeezing lemon juice on fish or eating a goodly portion of acid-binding
vegetables at the same meal as acid-forming foods are partaken of, the harmful effect is
partly lessened.
The  higher  the  “acid-binding”  qualities  of  a  food,  the  more  valuable  as  a  mucus-
eliminator. Black radish when in season, spinach, dandelion and dill are all excellent
internal scourers:
Berg's Tables









Transition Diet
LESSON XV.
In the preceding lessons you were taught the foods which are best, as well as those
which are bad, and which are the worst ones. You know the exact reason why and also
what is going on in the system—what happens with good foods as well as with bad ones
in the human body. You have learned that even the best foods which have the highest,
most vigorous healing properties can become harmful, even dangerous in the beginning,
if not carefully used; that they become mixed with the filthy mucus and poisons which
they loosen up in the body, and thereby become poisoned, entering the blood stream in
this poisoned condition.
Everything  is  perfectly  performed  by  Nature  thru  evolutional,  progressive  changes,
developments and accomplishments and not by catastrophes. Nothing is more incorrect
than the mistaken idea that a decades old chronic disease can be healed thru a very long
fast, or a radically extended strict fruit diet. “Nature's mills grind slow but sure.”
My experience of over twenty years, covering for the most part the extremely severe
cases  of  all  kinds  of  diseases,  has  proven  that  a  carefully  selected  and  progressively
changed TRANSITION DIET is the best and surest way for every patient to start a cure,
especially for the average mixed eater. As long as wrong foods (foods of civilization) are
partly  used,  I  call  it  a  MUCUS-LEAN  DIET.  Transition  means  the  slow  change  from
disease-producing foods to disease-healing foods, which later I call the MUCUSLESS DIET.
The  speed  of  elimination  depends  upon  quantities  and  qualities  of  food  and  can
therefore be controlled and regulated according to the condition of the patient. The worst
and by far the most unhealthy habit is the HEAVY BREAKFAST. No solid food should be
eaten in the early morning at all if you desire to secure the best results. It is permissible
to take the drink that you are accustomed to, but nothing else. If you find this difficult to
do in the beginning you may drink again later on so that your lunch is taken in the empty
stomach. This is so very important that a number of light diseases can be cured by the
so-called “No BREAKFAST PLAN” alone. (This subject is more fully covered in Fasting
Lessons 18, 19, 20, 21.)
It is best that no more than two meals a day be eaten, even though the quantity you eat
is as much as if three or even four meals were eaten. Later, when the stomach is cleaner,
a  small  dish  of  fresh  fruits  when  in  season  may  be  eaten  for  breakfast  if  desired.  If
possible, the first meal, lunch, should be eaten between ten and eleven in the morning,
and supper not sooner than five or six in the afternoon. Another very important rule,
when eating for health, is SIMPLICITY; in other words do not mix too many kinds of food
at one meal. Count the different number of items in the average meal of today and the
total will startle you.
NEVER DRINK DURING A MEAL. If accustomed to tea or coffee, wait a short while
after you have eaten before drinking. Soups should be avoided with meals, as the more
liquid  taken  the  more  difficult  for  proper  digestion.  If  a  warm  drink  is  desired,  for
instance, as a breakfast drink during the winter time, make a broth by cooking for a long
time different kinds of vegetables, such as spinach, onions, carrots, cabbages, etc., and

DRINK THE JUICE ONLY.
Menus for the First Two Weeks
LUNCH: A combination salad, consisting of raw grated carrots or coleslaw or both, half
and half, and two or three spoonfuls of a stewed or canned vegetable, such as green peas,
string beans or spinach. Add to this one of the following items (whatever is in season):
cucumbers, tomatoes, green onions, lettuce or other green leaf vegetables, celery, etc.,
but only a sufficient quantity for a flavoring.
You may make an oil dressing according to your taste if desired, using lemon juice
instead of vinegar—for flavoring purposes only. The rest of the meal should consist of
one baked or stewed vegetable such as cauliflower, beets, parsnips, turnips, squash, etc.
If you still feel as though you were hungry you may eat a small sized baked potato or one
slice  of  toasted  bran  or  whole  wheat  bread.  Fats  of  any  kind,  including  the  ordinary
butter, are unnatural and therefore should not be eaten. However, should you crave fats it
is best to use peanut butter or some other nut butter on your bread. During the winter
months canned vegetables may be used when green vegetables are not available. Drink
the juice separately in the morning and mix the green or string beans or spinach, etc.,
with the salad stock as described above of coleslaw or raw carrots. The object of this
menu is to supply the “broom” to provide mean for mechanically cleansing the digestive
tract by quantities of raw, baked and stewed starchless vegetables. This may be called
“Ehret's Standard Combination Salad”, the “intestinal broom” spoken of so frequently,
and  so  necessary  for  properly  eliminating  the  store  up  poisons  now  being  loosened
during the body's house-cleaning.
SUPPER: Mix (half and half) a stewed fruit such as apple sauce, stewed dried apricots,
stewed  dried  peaches,  or  stewed  prunes  with  cottage  cheese  or  with  some  very  ripe
bananas, mashed, sweetened with brown sugar or honey to taste.
The bananas would be for a less “mucused” or less acid stomach.
Menus for the Second Two Weeks
LUNCH: First a baked apple, apple sauce or other stewed dried fruit. After ten or fifteen
minutes a combination salad as suggested in first menu, and bran or whole wheat bread
toasted  if  still  hungry.  Cow  butter  should  be  gradually  avoided  and  replaced  by  a
vegetable or nut butter during the transition. By allowing the cooked vegetables to soak
on the salad for 10 to 15 minutes it serves the purpose of a dressing.
SUPPER: A baked or stewed vegetable as suggested in the first menu, followed with a
vegetable salad made of lettuce and cucumber or raw celery or a little coleslaw.
Menus for the Third Two Weeks
LUNCH: During the summer this should be an exclusive fruit meal-one kind only. In
winter a sweet dried fruit, for example, prunes, figs, raisins or dates eaten with apples or
oranges  or  the  dried  fruits  can  be  chewed  together  with  a  very  few  nuts,  and  then
followed by the fresh fruits. If in the beginning this fails to satisfy, wait for ten or fifteen
minutes and then eat a few leaves of lettuce or a cold vegetable either cooked or raw, but
just a small quantity.

SUPPER: A  combination  salad  as  suggested  in  the  first  menu,  followed  by  a  baked
vegetable.
Menus for the Fourth Two Weeks
LUNCH: Fruits as in previous menus.
SUPPER: First eat fruits, either baked or stewed, or fresh, followed a little later by a
cold cooked vegetable or better still a vegetable salad.
If you find that you are losing weight too rapidly, the elimination should be slowed
down  by  eating  bread  or  potatoes  after  the  vegetables.  Should  you  feel  an  intense
craving, in the beginning, for meat—a great desire returning which you cannot resist,
then eat vegetables only on that day, and NO FRUITS.
A Dissolved Mystery
The reason doctors and even Naturopaths in general, as well as the layman, do not
believe in FRUIT diet or MUCUSLESS diet, is simply this: Whoever experiments without
experience with this diet of healing, whether sick or well, loses his faith immediately, as
soon as he has a crisis, becomes what he believes to be “seriously ill”, that is to say, a
day on which a great amount of dissolved waste, debris, mucus and other poisons are
taken back into the circulation, a day of great elimination. This produces at the same
time a strong, almost irresistible craving for wrong foods and, strange at is may seem,
the patient most strongly craves for the wrong food, which was once his favorite. This is
explained by the fact that Nature is eliminating thru the circulation the waste of these
foods, and it is when they are in the circulation the craving and desire is naturally enough
produced.
This then is why it is of extreme importance that every meal of a diet of healing and
cleansing must leave the body as soon as possible. Being mixed with the loosened and
dissolved poisons they cause these “uncomfortable” conditions—a fact that has never
before been perfectly understood or explained.
Certain foods prove more laxative under certain conditions. Therefore, eat the foods
that you have personally found to be the most laxative in your own body. If you do not
experience  a  regular  bowel  movement  before  retiring,  always  help  with  an  enema,  a
laxative or both. A natural laxative helps, which you will undoubtedly find very efficient,
is eating a few dried prunes before the other fruits are taken.
A very good aid to elimination which can be used during the transition diet period,
until the bowels are cleansed from the old sticky waste, and until such time as the bowels
act freely from the new diet is “INNERCLEAN”,* a harmless herb vegetable compound,
perfected by myself, and the most efficient intestinal broom and bowel regulator known.
*   Information on Innerclean Herbal Laxative can be found at
www.atlastnaturals.com

Transition Diet (Continued)
LESSON XVI.
Special Transition Recipes
Being known as a “diet expert” I receive continual requests for a “diet book”, or at
least a collection of food combinations, mucusless recipes and menus.
Many volumes have already been published by numerous dietitians, which are now on
the market, varying in price from $1.00 to $10.00. They call it “scientific diet”, but not
one of them is in accord with Nature, such as exists in the animal kingdom, and which is
SIMPLICITY, with absolutely no mixtures at all.
I must again remind you that cattle, for instance, when in the wilderness eat absolutely
nothing  else  than  grass  during  their  entire  life.  No  animal  when  eating  combines
different foods at the same time or even drinks between mouthfuls of food, with the
possible exception of domesticated animals changed into mixed eaters by civilized man.
The ideal and at the same time most natural method of eating for man is one kind of
fresh  fruit,  in  season,  and  you  will  soon  notice  after  you  have  been  living  on  the
transition  diet  for  awhile,  that  you  will  feel  more  satisfied  and  in  fact  are  better
nourished with one kind of fruit, than with all kinds of scientific mixtures or prepared,
made up foods. This condition cannot of course take place until your body is perfectly
clean.
During the transition diet I use food combinations and mixtures prepared from cooked,
steamed  or  baked  foods  for  technical  reasons,  to  better  perform  the  healing  process
intelligently, systematically and under control.
Vegetables and Fruits
My experience has taught me that only raw celery, lettuce, carrots and beets combine
well with fruits. In general, it is best never to use more than three kinds with the same
combination. Always use one kind as the prevailing “stock” or base.
For a bad, acid or “mucused stomach” use menus consisting of more vegetables and
very little fruits. For a stomach in better condition, or the average stomach, use more
fruits and less vegetables. The following is an example:
1.   FOR A BAD STOMACH: Take as stock  grated or shredded raw carrots, or grated
celery or grated beets may be used, altho carrots are best. Add  of finely sliced
very  ripe  bananas  and  a  few  raisins  or  sliced  dried  figs.  No  nuts  or  cereals.
NEVER MIX NUTS WITH WET FRUIT.
2.   FOR A BETTER STOMACH: Take as stock  sliced or grated apples,  shredded
carrots (or celery or beets). To increase the efficiency of this combination in its
aggressive,  dissolving  functions  as  a  mucus  and  poison  eliminator  add  more
raisins, sliced dried figs, honey or a fruit jelly.
Fruit acid dissolves waste and forms gases; fruit sugar ferments in the waste and stirs
up, also forming gases. Both eliminate and for this reason it can become harmful if they
work too intensively. It is therefore advisable to use raw vegetables as a “broom” more

frequently. For this same reason, use stewed fruits in the beginning, or at least half and
half; for example half raw grated apples (with the skin) and half apple sauce, sweetened
with honey.
A “Square Meal” Substitute
Before  a  crisis,  during  or  shortly  after,  or  to  satisfy  a  craving  for  wrong  food
especially rich in fat, you may try the following occasionally. While too rich, they are
much less harmful than a square meal and will be found to be very enjoyable:
Take some grated cocoanut, mixed or eaten together with apple sauce, stewed prunes
or sweetened apricots.
Very ripe bananas, or if unripened then baked, will be found to satisfy when unusually
“hungry”.
Other  kinds  of  grated  nuts,  or  nut  butter  may  be  served  once  in  a  while  for  this
purpose, but are too rich in protein and will produce, if continually used, mucus and uric
acid.
Improved “Cooked” Vegetables
Only one kind of cooked vegetable should be used at one meal. It may be eaten either
cold or warm, and mixed with green salads and raw vegetables.
If cabbage, carrots, turnips, beets, cauliflower, onions, etc., are slowly stewed in a very
little  water,  or  best,  if  carefully  baked,  they  become  sweeter,  which  proves  that  the
carbon-hydrates are developed into grape sugar, more or less, and the mineral salts are
not destroyed and not extracted. This is in fact an improvement and not waste.
In winter canned foods may be used as a substitute for fresh ones. I differ from the raw
food “fanatics” because the food value is not important in a diet of healing. It is of more
importance that the patient should and shall enjoy his change of diet during the transition
until his tastes and conditions have improved.
Special “Mucus-Eliminator” Recipes
1.   Raisins and figs or nuts, masticated thoroughly with raw green onions at the
same time. These must not be eaten separately to secure best results.
2.   Grated horse-radish mixed with honey. After mixing allow to stand to take off
sharp taste. The honey is only used to make it more palliative. Two-thirds horse-
radish, and 1/3 honey, or to suit the taste. The ordinary radish, especially the
black radish, may also be used the same way, or finely sliced and eaten alone as
a salad. For consumptives who cough without spitting, give one spoonful every
once  in  a  while.  There  is  a  surprising  amount  of  mineral  salts  in  radishes,
especially the black radish.
Recipe for a Special Dissolver of Hardened Mucus and Uric Acid
With the following recipe I once healed a woman, who after six years of paralysis,
became  entirely  normal,  when  both  fasting  and  the  mucusless  diet  failed  to  effect  a
recovery. It cannot be taken into a mucus-filled stomach. The recipe follows: Take the
juice  and  pulp  of  four  lemons.  Grate  the  peel  of  one  lemon  and  mix  with  the  juice.

Sweeten with honey, brown sugar or fruit jelly to taste. The object of the sweetening is to
make the mixture less sour and bitter.
Dressings
This is really a question of personal taste. A good salad or olive oil with lemon juice
to taste is simple and good. A spoonful of peanut butter or nut butter dissolved in water
and a little lemon juice added is another simple recipe. Add finely sliced onions (green)
if  desired.  Homemade  mayonnaise,  using  lemon  instead  of  vinegar,  is  not  especially
harmful during the transition diet and can be used if you enjoy it. Tomatoes cooked into
a sauce, or good canned tomato soup mixed with the dressing may help you enjoy the
“transition diet”.
Drinks
Even if the use of table salt is discontinued, you will sometimes be very thirsty during
your transition diet, because your mucus, now back in the circulation and the waste of
decayed unnatural foods, eaten with salt during your former life is very salty. When in
the circulation you will suffer from unnatural thirst. A light lemonade with a little honey
or brown sugar will relieve the thirst much better than plain water.
The juice of any of the acid or sub-acid fruits makes a good drink and the best is sweet
apple cider, if not too sweet. Cereal coffee, or even light genuine coffee, if this was your
customary drink, can be used during the transition period.
Supplement to Transition Diet Menus
and Combinations
The “standard menu” of the day in my Sanitarium, besides special prescriptions for
patients under personal treatment, was as follows:
A drink in the morning.
LUNCH: One or two kinds of fruits.
SUPPER: Vegetables, mucuslean or mucusless.
This diet quickly brings the average man, not called sick, into better condition. Slight
spells  may  be  manifested  in  some  manner  or  other,  but  an  “old  chronic”  or  severe
disease, caused chiefly thru a drug poisoned body, must be treated by systematically and
individually  prescribed  daily  menus,  continually  changing  same,  “speeding  up  and
slowing down”, according to the patient's changing condition.
The Mucusless Diet Healing System is NOT a propaganda like Vegetarianism or the
Raw Food Movement; it is a clinical THERAPY OF EATING  that  has  to  be  studied  and
intelligently advised and prescribed personally, the same as is being done by all other
methods of drugless healing and therapeutics.
This diet heals every disease if it is possible to be healed at all, because all disease-
producing foods are finally eliminated from the diet menus, and the new ones loosen, stir
up, remove and eliminate, clean, heal and cure the body.
You  build  up  a  new  and  for  the  first  time  in  your  life  a  perfect,  natural  blood
composition such as defined in Lesson 8. This new blood removes and eliminated finally

and unfailingly every disease matter even though your doctor failed to locate exactly
where it was.
The function of healing, the “operation without the knife”, the cleansing, eliminating
process begins almost immediately and must of necessity be conducted, controlled and
supervised for weeks and even months to secure proper results. The knowledge contained
in  these  lessons  is  sufficient  to  enable  the  student  to  properly  supervise  his  own
individual case.
The  menus,  combinations,  mixtures  and  recipes  are  therapeutical  adjustments  to
enforce the self-healing of the body, called disease, and not to suppress or to stop it as is
done with drugs.
The  average  patient  expects  the  right  diet  to  help  him  at  once;  therefore  the  great
desire for curative menus and mixtures. Even most of the advanced doctors imagine that
a few menus and combinations from one day to the other is all the knowledge necessary.
As yet they don't know the truth that you have learned in the previous lessons, that
Physiology and Pathology are fundamentally wrong, that all present day ideas about food
and nourishment are entirely wrong and diametrically opposite to the truth. Therefore
they do not have the slightest idea what happens and what must happen in the human
system, if for the first time in the patient's life the decade's old waste and poisons are
stirred up and have to be eliminated thru the circulation.
You must realize and perceive that you are starting on an entirely new and perfect
revolution, regeneration and rejuvenation of your body, when you change your diet in
this way, and it cannot be accomplished within a few days by simply eating some good
menus and mixture.
Mucuslean Recipes
If a little starch food is eaten after a meal it can be called a MUCUSLEAN DIET. But
these starchy foods can be made less harmful by destroying or neutralizing more or less
sticky properties of the pasty starch. The more the potato is baked the better. Toast well
done is best.
Raw cereal should be roasted first whenever desired, and will be found to work as a
good  intestinal  broom,  altho  they  contain  stimulants.  Rice  is  a  great  mucus-former
because it makes the best paste, but it can be improved by soaking over night in water
(you will notice that the water becomes very sticky and slimy and of an awful odor).
Pour off the water from the rice and either fry or bake it a little.
A Mucuslean Bread Recipe
Mix a rough bran flour or whole wheat flour with raw grated carrots, half and half, add
only as much white flour as necessary to keep the dough, add somewhat grated apples
and a handful of grated nuts; also if desired, some raisins. Bake very slowly and well.
This is best eaten when two or three days old or well toasted.

Vegetarian Recipes
LESSON XVII.
Some Improved Recipes of Salad Dressings
Condiments  are  much  less  harmful  than  mucus  forming  foods.  The  so-called
poisonous  table  salt  is  a  very  good  mucus  dissolver.  The  average  mixed  starch  eater
could not stand this diet without salt. Of course with the perfect mucusless diet the want
and need of salt will be eliminated automatically and with that the unnatural thirst.
MAYONNAISE: Beat thoroughly for at least  5  minutes  one  egg,  to  which  add  VERY
SLOWLY a few drops at a time one pint of good salad oil, continue beating while adding
oil. Add lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. If tomato flavor is desired you may add the
juice of one tomato.
FRENCH  DRESSING:  Mix  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  four  tablespoons  oil,  ¼  teaspoon
honey,  ¼  teaspoon  salt,  ¼  teaspoon  paprika.  Mix  l¼  tablespoons  of  oil  with  the  dry
ingredients, stir well and add the lemon juice. As dressing thickens thru stirring, add the
rest of the oil and a little garlic flavor if you like.
Some Standard Mucusless Cooked Recipes
As  I  said  before  you  may  call  the  Coleslaw  and  Carrot  Combination  the  Standard
Transition Salad. Now I will give you the Standard Cooked Mixture.
Serbian Vegetable Goulash
Stew in a very little water or in olive oil or in a vegetable fat, coarsely sliced white or
red cabbage and some sliced onions with some sliced sweet peppers, when in season, and
finish stewing with some sliced tomatoes; a little salt and pepper if desired.
Red or white cabbage with onions baked or broiled in a little fat and tomato sauce, as a
gravy is an appetizing dish. The same can be done with cauliflower, carrots, brussels
sprouts, beets with the leaves, etc.
The idea is to bake dry as possible and to afford occasionally an enjoyable harmless
substitute for the chops, roasts, etc., which you have discontinued.
Some Special Suggestions Concerning My “Cook Book”
You will notice that all menus and recipes are surprisingly short. If you fall back into
the same gluttony-like mixtures, eating foods as described in vegetarian cook books and
even in raw food books you will never be perfectly healed. The ideal menu for man is the
“mono-diet”, consisting of one kind of fruit in season and I must again remind you that
no animal in freedom is a “mixed eater” at one meal.
You  learned  that  I  use  partly  cooked  food  during  the  transition  diet  and  in  the
beginning  the  vegetables  prevail.  This  has  for  its  purpose  the  slowing  down  of  the
elimination, for it is well known that people can stand a stewed or baked fruit whereas
they cannot stand the same kind when fresh. Vital food is not the entire object to be
gained at first, but rather their property to dissolve and to eliminate. This vital healing
efficiency  is  most  perfect  in  all  kinds  of  fresh  fruits  and  will  be  found  to  be  too

aggressive for the majority of patients. This is undoubtedly the cause of the wrong ideas
and reason for the “fruit fast” being in ill repute, and it is the same reason why I use
stewed and baked fruits in the beginning to slow down elimination.
Whenever you feel bad, the cause is that you have too much dissolved mucus and
probably old drugs in the circulation; then slow down the elimination by not eating raw
fruits, nor even cooked fruits at all and for a few days eat cooked or raw vegetables only.
Vegetables work more mechanically and dissolve less.
Later  on  when  the  roughest  waste  is  eliminated  from  your  body  and  it  becomes
necessary like in all cases of a severe chronic disease to carry the elimination by the new
blood deeper and deeper into the tissue system, the diet must be restricted more and
more, as the healing process continues.
In the following lessons you will learn how a Fruit Fast must be undertaken, what
Scientific Therapeutical Fasting is, and last but not least how the “Mucusless Diet” is
properly combined with fasting if found necessary, or the principles and the details of
the Mucusless Diet Healing System.
NOTE: Prof. Ehret frequently refers to having purposely omitted recipes, in spite of
repeated  requests,  and  gave  as  his  reason,  “In  Nature,  such  as  exists  in  the  animal
kingdom, there are absolutely no mixtures at all. The ideal and most natural method of
eating is the mono-diet. One kind of fresh fruit, when in season, should constitute a meal,
and you will find yourself better nourished. This condition, of course, cannot take place
until  you  have  thoroughly  cleansed  your  body  of  toxemic  poisons,  mucus,  or  call  it
foreign substances”.
We feel sure that Prof. Ehret would have approved and granted permission to include a
few mucus-lean recipes, particularly of salads, in the 22nd edition of his Mucusless Diet
Healing  System,  after  being  convinced  as  we  have  that  the  public  demand  requires
substitutes from the present day acknowledged method of food preparation, if they are to
successfully take up the Ehret method. And so, with this thought in view, and with the
hopes of converting many more to the Ehret System, we present a few sample menus
simply as examples of how to combine and prepare a meal.
Numerous other equally tasty menus can be arranged by simply changing either the
cooked vegetable or combination of raw vegetables.
The ideal diet of man is the mono-diet and mixtures are prone to lead to gluttony, so that
this should be remembered when arranging the meal.
1.     ALWAYS  EAT  FRUIT  FIRST.  The  digestion  of  ripe  fruits  takes  place  within  a
normal  stomach  within  a  few  minutes  after  eating.  Wait  five  or  ten  minutes
before eating your vegetable course.
2.   DO NOT DRINK LIQUIDS OF ANY KIND WITH MEAL. Liquids of all kinds (including
soups) interfere with proper digestion of meal. At least thirty minutes should
elapse before drinking both before and after eating.
3.   MAN'S FOOD IS FRUITS and HERBS–(Genesis 1). For healing purposes, uncooked,
starchless green leaf vegetables (parsley, carrots, celery, lettuce), combined with
fruits both in their natural and cooked state, will be found to be much better than

an exclusive fruit diet.
4.   MIX BUT FEW VARIETIES. Fruit meals should consist of not more than two kinds of
fruits in season. Your appetite will dictate the quantity to be eaten.
5.   NEVER EAT NUTS WITH JUICY FRUITS. When nuts are eaten with fruits such as
oranges, apples, pears, etc., the water makes nuts indigestible. Dried fruits—
figs,  raisins,  dates,  prunes,  can  be  eaten  dry  with  nuts.  Chew  together  and
masticate thoroughly. The fruit sugar helps to digest the nuts.
6.   NATURE'S OWN BOOK IS SIMPLICITY. The fewer food mixtures the better. Three
different varieties should be sufficient—four and five is often too many.
7.   DO NOT OVER-EAT. Mother Nature requires moderation in all things.
Sample Menus
Cottage  Cheese  and Apple  Sauce  mixture. Add  raisins  if  desired.  Place  on  bed  of
Lettuce and serve.
A  ten  minute  intermission  affords  the  family  an  opportunity  of  talking  over  the
PLEASANT happenings of the day-and always bear in mind that laughter aids digestion.
Salad—Natural Vegetable Combination Salad.
Baked Cauliflower. (Boil Cauliflower until about half done—then bake in oven until
brown.  Use  a  suitable  vegetable  shortening  when  baking  in  preference  to  butter  fats.
Serve either hot or cold, and add dressing to suit.
Two pieces Zweibach toast.
Dried Fruit (such as Raisins, Dates, Figs) and Walnuts or Pecans (chewed together).
Salad-Cooked Combination Salad. Serve on Lettuce leaves.
Baked Irish Potato.
Fresh Fruit in season such as Peaches, Apricots, Grapes, etc.
Russian Salad (Tomatoes, Carrots, Celery, Watercress, Onions).
Swedish Rye Krisp.
Carrot and Raisin Salad.
Ehret's Serbian Goulash.
Toasted Whole Wheat Bread.
Apple Sauce with Raisins.
Coleslaw Salad. Slice raw Cabbage finely. Add Lemon juice to soften and allow to
stand at least one hour before serving. Add chopped Onions, Celery and cold cooked
Carrots or Peas. Dressing to taste.
Baked Sweet Potato.

Mashed ripe Bananas with fresh Strawberries and Honey to sweeten.
Mexican Coleslaw.
Baked Banana Squash.
Cottage Cheese and Apricot Jam.
Lettuce and Tomato Salad.
Ripe Olives.
One cooked vegetable.
Baked Potato.
Baked Apple with Honey.
Elimination Salad.
Baked Artichoke.
Zweibach
Stuffed Prune Salad.
Vegetable Chop Suey.
Baked Potato.
Baked Apple or Apple Sauce
Baked Beet Tops.
Whole Wheat Toast.
Salad Recipes
Natural Combination Salad – Large bowl of lettuce cut very fine, 4 handfuls radishes,
cut very fine, 4 handfuls tomatoes, chopped, 2 handfuls parsley, cut very fine. Add oil
and lemon juice, and mix thoroughly, let stand 15 minutes. Add a little mayonnaise if
desired.
May Salad – Large bowl of chopped cabbage, 1 cup of radishes, cut fine, ½ cup sweet
green peppers, chopped fine, 1½ cups chopped tomatoes, 1 cup green onions, chopped
fine,  ½  cup  parsley,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  cucumbers,  chopped—if  in  season.  Mix
thoroughly. Add 2 tablespoons lemon juice and 3 tablespoons mayonnaise. Garnish with
olives or radishes, for decoration.
Apple and Celery Salad – Two cups cubed apples to which lemon juice has been added
to keep from discoloring, 1 cup chopped celery, ¼ cup fine chopped parsley, 1 handful
seedless  raisins,  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise,  mixed  thoroughly.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce
leaves.
Cabbage Salad – Two cups shredded cabbage, 1 cup finely chopped green peppers.
Add 2 tablespoons lemon, soak 10 minutes. Add 2 tablespoons mayonnaise dressing. Mix

thoroughly. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. Decorate with chopped pimento.
Carrot and Raisin Salad – Two cups coarsely shredded carrots. Soak ½ cup seedless
raisins about 2 hours, ½ cup finely chopped celery. Mix thoroughly. Add 2 tablespoons
mayonnaise.
Stuffed Prune Salad  –  Fill  centers  of  cooked  prunes  with  cottage  cheese.  Place  1
blanched almond in center of cottage cheese. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise.
Cooked Combination Salad – One cup diced cooked carrots, 1 cup cooked peas, 1 cup
chopped  cooked  string  beans,  ½  cup  finely  chopped  raw  celery.  Mix  thoroughly,  add
mayonnaise. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves.
Serbian Slaw – One cup coarsely chopped celery, 1 cup finely sliced cabbage, ¼ cup
finely chopped onions, ¼ cup minced olives, 1 tablespoon chopped pimento. Add oil and
lemon juice.
Fruit Salad (served in Apple Shells) – Select good looking apples. Cut off piece of top
and  remove  meat  of  apple.  Chop  together  the  apple  hearts,  pineapple,  grapefruit  and
cherries, in equal parts. Add lemon juice. Sweeten with honey and place in the shells of
apples. Sprinkle with grated cocoanut
Mexican Coleslaw – Two cups of finely sliced red cabbage, ½ cup chopped celery, 1
cup red kidney beans, ¼ cup chopped onions, ¼ cup chopped peppers. Add olive oil and
lemon juice.
Carrot and Apple Salad – One cup chopped carrots, 1 cup cubed apples, soaked in
lemon juice, ½ cup chopped celery, finely chopped onions to flavor, ½ cup finely sliced
dates. Add olive oil and lemon juice. Soak for 15 minutes. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves.
Summer Salad – One cup chopped watercress, ½ cup chopped tomatoes, ½ cup diced
cucumbers, ½ cup diced celery. Add olive oil and lemon juice. Mix thoroughly and serve
on crisp lettuce leaves.
Russian Salad – Two ripe tomatoes, 4 medium size carrots, diced, ½ finely chopped
onion, 2 sprigs chopped watercress, 2 stalks celery, cut in 1-inch lengths and split. Mix
with mayonnaise. Serve on bed of lettuce. Garnish with sliced tomatoes.
Asparagus Salad – Cook asparagus and cut into 3-inch lengths. Make bed of finely
sliced lettuce. Put asparagus on lettuce. Add mayonnaise if desired.
Cauliflower and Pea Salad – Cook cauliflower and break into small pieces. To 2 cups
cauliflower, add 1 cup cooked peas and 1 cup chopped parsley. Add mayonnaise and
serve on lettuce leaves.
Asparagus and Cauliflower Salad – Boil asparagus and cut tips in 3-inch lengths. Boil
cauliflower and break in small pieces. Mix together in equal portions. Add mayonnaise.
Serve on lettuce leaves.
Brazilian Salad – One and one-half cups ripe strawberries, 1½ cups cubed pineapple,
fresh, 12 blanched thinly sliced Brazil nuts, marinated in 4 tablespoons of lemon juice.
Arrange  lettuce  on  plates  in  rose  shape.  Fill  crown  with  above  mixture.  Cover  with
spoonful of mayonnaise. Decorate with strawberries.

Date and Celery Salad – Chop dates and celery-equal parts. Serve with mayonnaise,
on lettuce.
Waldorf Salad – One and one-half cups diced apples, ½ cup lemon juice, 1¼ cups
diced celery. Mix apples, celery and lemon juice well together. Use crisp, tart apples.
Drain off lemon juice. Add mayonnaise dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce. Decorate with
grated walnuts.
Mock Chicken Salad – Two cups finely sliced cabbage, 1 cup celery, 2 tablespoons
finely chopped onion, ½ cup green peppers, finely chopped, 1 cup cubed nut loaf, cold.
Add 2 tablespoons mayonnaise. Mix thoroughly. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. Decorate
with olives.
Grated Carrot and Spinach Salad – One cup grated carrots, 1 cup chopped spinach, 1
cup coleslaw. Add lemon juice to spinach and coleslaw and soak 10 minutes. Prepare
salad plates with leaves of crisp lettuce-bottom layer coleslaw, second layer chopped
spinach. Top layer grated carrots. One spoonful mayonnaise, and ripe olive in center for
decoration.
Elimination Salad – Two cups chopped spinach, 2 cups coleslaw, 1 cup fresh green
peas, 1 cup chopped celery. Mix thoroughly. Add lemon juice and oil. Serve as desired.
Watercress Salad – Make bed of lettuce. Chop watercress. 2 tomatoes, sliced.
Mixed Salad – Chop lettuce leaves (1 large bowl), 2 cups chopped tomatoes, 1 cup
chopped celery, 1 cup chopped onions, ½ cup chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly. Add
lemon juice and oil.
Onion Salad – Two cups finely sliced cabbage, 1 cup sliced red onions, 1 cup chopped
tomatoes,  ½  cup  coarsely  chopped  parsley.  Add  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise  and  mix
thoroughly. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. Decorate with radishes.
Cooked Vegetable Recipes
Stuffed Onions  –  Select  good  sized  onions.  Remove  slice  from  top  of  each  onion.
Parboil onions until almost tender. Strain and remove centers, making six cups. Chop
onions that were scooped out. Combine with soft crumbs or chopped pepper and tomato
pulp.  Add  seasoning  to  taste.  Refill  onion  cups.  Place  in  pan  and  cover  with  onion
crumbs. Add ½ cup milk. Bake until tender.
Spinach Loaf – Wash spinach thoroughly. Cook in its own juice until tender. Drain
and chop. Chill and add onion finely chopped and the celery, finely cut. Moisten with
French dressing. Mold and bake in pan. Serve hot or cold.
Spinach Cutlets – Wash fresh spinach and beet tops thoroughly. Cook separately in
own juice until tender. Drain off water after cooking and chop. (Canned spinach can be
used if desired). 1 cup fresh beets medium size cooked until tender and diced. Braise 1
cup  chopped  celery,  1  large  onion  coarsely  sliced  and  one  Bell  pepper  chopped-in
cooking oil until golden brown. 1 cup either peanuts or walnuts coarsely chopped. 1 cup
whole  wheat  cracker  crumbs  or  toasted  whole  wheat  crumbs.  Place  all  ingredients  in
chopping bowl and chop thoroughly. Mold into round patties or cutlets. Dip in cracker
crumbs and fry in cooking oil or olive oil. Serve either hot or cold.

Sauteed Sweet Potatoes and Carrots – Two cups diced sweet potatoes, 2 cups diced
fresh carrots or one 8 oz. can. Cook sweet potatoes until tender. If fresh carrots are used,
cook in covered pot with as little water possible, until tender. With canned carrots, drain
liquid. Combine sweet potatoes and carrots and saute in frying pan using vegetable or
olive oil. Season with flavoring. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley before serving.
Vegetarian Hash  –  ½cup  cooked  lima  beans,  ½  cup  cooked  peas,  ½  cup  chopped
celery, ½ cup toasted bread crumbs, 2 cups boiled or baked potatoes diced, ½ cup diced
beets cooked, 4 tablespoons cooking oil, 2 boiled onions chopped, 2 tablespoons whole
wheat flour. Brown onions and flour in oil, add 2 cups hot water, cook until done. Add
rest of ingredients and bake until brown.
Lima  Beans  and  Cabbage  en  Casserole  –  Two  cups  shredded  cabbage,  1  pound
package fresh frozen lima beans or two 8-oz. cans, toasted bread crumbs, vegetable oil.
Cook cabbage in covered pot for about 12 minutes, or until tender, using as little water as
possible. Prepare frozen lima beans same way. If canned limas are used, drain liquid. Put
alternate layers of vegetables in oiled baking dish. Dot with vegetable oil, add toasted
bread crumbs and bake in moderate oven 15 to 20 minutes. Serves six.
New England Boiled Dinner – Four and one-half cups potatoes, 1 cup turnips, 2 cups
onions, 1¾ cups carrots, 2½ cups cabbage. Cut potatoes, carrots and turnips in ¾-inch
cubes. Slice onions. Cut cabbage into pieces about 1½ inches square. Boil potatoes and
onions together. Cabbage may be either cooked separately or added to carrots and turnips
when they are partially cooked. When all are done, mix together and serve.
Baked Artichokes – Boil until done. Remove from water. Spread open a few of outside
leaves and add garlic cloves. Place in pan. Pour over olive oil and bake in oven about 25
minutes.
Egg Plant Hash – Cut in half lengthwise. Place in oven until baked to a mushy pulp.
Remove and peel. Mash. Add fried onion. Season with salt and pepper.
Baked Beet Tops – Boil beet tops and spinach separately, half of each. Drain and chop.
Braise  onions.  Add  chopped  celery.  Mix  all  together.  Put  in  pan.  Cover  with  bread
crumbs and bake.
Vegetable Chicken a la King – Two stalks sliced celery, 2 cups chopped bell peppers,
¼ cup pimento, ½ cup green peas, ½ cup carrots, cubed. Add sliced onion. Make cream
whole wheat flour gravy. Serve on whole wheat toast or patties.
Mock Chicken Croquettes – Make base of braised onions, bell peppers and celery.
Add  mashed  baked  potatoes,  carrots,  peas—or  other  cooked  vegetables  if  preferred.
Toasted bread crumbs. Mold and bake in oil, until golden brown.
Vegetable Chop Suey  –  Braise  coarsely  chopped  onions.  Put  in  pot  to  bake.  Add
chopped celery, bean sprouts, chopped bell peppers, water chestnuts, dried mushrooms
(soak mushrooms at least three hours before using), tomatoes to flavor. Bake in oil until
golden brown.
Mock Country Sausage – Boiled brown rice, bread crumbs, toasted, celery, chopped
walnuts, peanut butter, sliced onions braised. Flavor with garlic and sage. Salt to flavor.
Mold in round balls. Bread and dip in hot oil until golden brown.

Vegetable Hamburger – Braise onions with bell peppers. Add garlic to taste. Cook
together. Add toasted bread crumbs, celery, walnuts and hominy. Mold and bake in oiled
pan. Serve with onions.
Stuffed Bell Peppers – Four large peppers, l½ tablespoons margarine, 1½ tablespoons
whole wheat flour, 1 cup milk, ½ cup chopped nut meats, 1 cup bread crumbs, ½ cup
diced  celery,  4  teaspoons  grated  onion.  Remove  seeds  from  peppers  and  parboil  10
minutes. Drain. Add chopped nut meats, celery, bread crumbs and grated onion. Season
to taste with salt and pepper. Fill cooked drained peppers with mixture. Spread additional
crumbs on top of peppers. Bake in margarine.
Baked Tomatoes  –  Cut  tops  from  tomatoes  and  scoop  out  pulp.  Season  pulp  with
grated onions and parsley. Replace into shells of tomatoes, put tops back on, cover and
bake for 25 minutes, basting with good salad oil. Arrange on bed of watercress or lettuce
surrounded by sliced cooked beets. Use dressing desired.
Carrot Nut Loaf – Two cups coarsely chopped carrots, ½ cup toasted crumbs, 1 cup
chopped celery, ½ cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup mashed tomatoes, ½ cup braised sliced
onions. Mix together, add 2 tablespoons margarine. Place in loaf pan and bake ½ hour.
Vegetable Sausage and Sauerkraut – One cup sliced onions, 2 cups natural brown
rice, ¼ cup finely chopped peanuts, ½ cup toasted crumbs. Braise onions in margarine.
Soak rice over night, or at least 6 hours, and after pouring off water, add fresh water and
boil until soft. Mix rice, crumbs, peanuts and onions. Mold in shape of sausages, dip in
egg and roll in fine cracker crumbs. Dip in hot oil until golden brown. Warm sauerkraut
and serve.
Zucchini Italienne – Slice in about ½ inch thickness 2 good sized zucchini, 1 good
sized tomato, ½ red onion, sliced and 1 small clove garlic, if desired. Cook zucchini and
onions for about 30 minutes, add tomatoes and cook additional 10 minutes.
New Potatoes and String Beans – Steam potatoes and peel. Cook string beans with as
little water as possible. Place both on baking pan and add chopped parsley. Pour over
Italian Olive Oil and warm in oven for 15 minutes. Serve.
Corn Saute – Two cups shoepeg corn, ¼ cup chopped bell peppers (braised), ¼ cup
chopped  onions,  cup chopped pimentos. Mix ingredients and bake 15 minutes in a
slow oven.
Vegetarian Corn Beef – One cup cubed carrots, 1 cup cabbage, coarsely chopped ½
cup potatoes, ½ cup celery chopped. Steamed vegetables. Fill baking pan ½ full with
brown gravy, add ingredients, brush lightly with margarine, and bake 10 minutes at 400
degrees Fahrenheit.
Italian Meat Balls – Soak spaghetti (whole wheat) and cook until tender, about 2 cups,
2 cups nut meat loaf, ½ cup onions, ½ cup chopped celery,  cup hot peppers, or to
flavor. Mix ingredients, after adding Spanish sauce. Form in balls, bake in pan and serve
with Spanish sauce.
Mock Halibut Cutlets with Tartar Sauce – Cook 2 cups lima beans until soft, braise
onions and bell peppers together with flavoring. Mix ingredients, dip in breadcrumbs and
bake after molding in any form desired. Serve with tartar sauce made without vinegar or

pickles and springs of parsley.

Fasting
LESSON XVIII.
It  is  significant  for  our  time  of  degeneration  that  fasting,  by  which  I  mean  living
without solid and liquid food, is still a problem as a healing factor for the average man,
as well as for the orthodox medical doctor. Even Naturopathy required a few decades in
its development to take up Nature's only, universal and omnipotent “remedy” of healing.
It is further significant that fasting is still considered as a “special” kind of cure, and due
to some truly “marvelous” results here and there, it has quite recently become a world-
wide  fad.  Some  expert  Nature-cure  advocators  plan  out  general  “prescriptions”  of
fasting, and how to break a fast regardless of your condition or the cause from which you
are a sufferer.
On  the  other  hand,  fasting  is  so  feared  and  misrepresented  that  the  average  man
actually considers you a fool if you miss a few meals when sick, thinking you will starve
to death, when in reality you are being cured. The medical doctor in general endorses
and, in fact, teaches such foolish beliefs regarding Nature's only foundational law of all
healing  and  “curing”.  He  fails  to  understand  the  difference  between  fasting  and
starvation.
Whatever  has  been  designed  and  formulated  to  eliminate  the  disease  matters  and
designed as “natural treatments” without having at least some restriction or change in
diet, or fasting, is a fundamental disregard of the truth concerning the cause of disease.
Have you ever thought what the lack of appetite means when sick? And that animals
have no doctors, and no drug stores, and no sanitariums, and no machinery to heal them?
Nature demonstrates and teaches by that example that there is only one disease and that
one is caused thru eating and, therefore, every disease whatsoever that may be named by
man, is and can be healed by one “remedy” only—by doing the direct opposite of the
cause—by the compensation of the wrong—i.e., reducing the quantity of food or fasting.
The reason so many, especially long, fasting cures have failed and continue to fail is due
to the ignorance which still exists regarding what is going on in the body during a fast,
an ignorance still existing even in the minds of Naturopaths and fasting experts up to the
present date.
I  dare  say  there  may  not  be  another  man  in  history  who  has  studied,  investigated,
tested and experimented on fasting as much as I did. There is no other expert at present,
as far as I know, who conducted so many fasting cures on the most severe cases, as I did.
I  opened  the  first  special  sanitarium  in  the  world  for  fasting,  combined  with  the
Mucusless Diet, and fasting is an essential part of the Mucusless Diet Healing System. I
have  likewise  made  four  public  scientific  tests  of  fasting  of  21,  24,  32  and  49  days,
respectively, as a demonstration. The latter test is the world's record of a fast conducted
under a strict scientific supervision of government officials.
You may therefore believe me when I teach something new and instructive about what
actually happens in the body during a fast. You learned in Lesson 5 that the body must
first be considered as a machine, a mechanism made of rubber-like material which has
been over-expanded during its entire life thru overeating. Therefore, the functioning of

the organism is continually obstructed by an unnatural over-pressure of the blood and on
the tissues. As soon as you stop eating, this over-pressure is rapidly relieved, the avenues
of circulation contract, the blood becomes more concentrated and the superfluous water
is eliminated. This goes on for the first few days and you may even feel fine, but then the
obstructions  of  the  circulation  become  greater  because  the  diameter  of  the  avenues
becomes smaller and the blood must circulate thru many parts of the body, especially in
the tissues, at and around the symptom, against sticky mucus pressed-out and dissolved
from the inside walls; in other words, the blood stream must overcome, dissolve and
carry with itself mucus and poisons for elimination thru the kidneys.
When you fast you eliminate first and at once the primary obstructions of wrong and
too much eating. This results in your feeling relatively good, or possibly even better than
when eating, but, as previously explained, you bring new, secondary obstructions from
your own waste in the circulation and you feel miserable. You and everyone else blame
the lack of food. The next day you can notice with certainty mucus in the urine and when
the quantity of waste, taken in the circulation, is eliminated, you will undoubtedly feel
fine, even stronger than ever before. So it is a well known fact that a faster can feel better
and is actually stronger on the twentieth day than on the fifth or sixth day, certainly a
tremendous  proof  that vitality does not depend primarily on food, but rather from an
obstructed circulation. (See Lesson 5). The smaller the amount of “O” (obstruction) the
greater “P” (air-pressure) and therefore “V” (vitality).
Thru  the  above  enlightening  explanation  you  see  that  fasting  is;  first,  a  negative
proposition to relieve the body from direct obstructions of solid, most unnatural foods;
second, that it is a mechanical process of elimination by contracting tissues pressing out
mucus, causing friction and obstruction in the circulation.
The following are examples of vitality from “P”, Power, air-pressure alone:
One  of  my  first  fasters,  a  relatively  healthy  vegetarian,  walked  45  miles  in  the
mountains on his 24th fast day.
A friend of fifteen years younger and myself walked 56 HOURS CONTINUALLY after a
ten-day fast.
A  German  physician,  a  specialist  in  fasting  cures,  published  a  pamphlet  entitled,
“Fasting, the Increase of Vitality”. He learned the same fact that I did, but he does not
know why and how, and vitality therefore remained mysterious for him.
If you drink only water during a fast, the human mechanism cleanses itself, the same
as though you would press out a dirty watery sponge, but the dirt in this instance is sticky
mucus, and in many cases pus and drugs, which must pass thru the circulation until it is
so  thoroughly  dissolved  that  it  can  pass  thru  the  fine  structure  of  the  “physiological
sieve” called kidneys.

Fasting (Continued)
LESSON XIX.
As long as the waste is in the circulation you feel miserable during a fast; as soon as it
is thru the kidneys you feel fine. Two or three days later and the same process repeats
itself. It must now be clear to you why conditions change so often during a fast; it must
now be clear to you why it is possible for you to feel unusually better and stronger on the
twentieth fast day than on the fifth, for instance.
But this entire cleansing work, thru continued contracting of the tissues (becoming
lean) must be done by, and with the original old blood composition of the patient, and
consequently a long fast, especially a too long fast, may become in fact a crime if the
sick organism is too greatly clogged up by waste. Fasters who died from too long a fast
did not die from lack of food, but actually suffocated in and with their own waste. I made
this statement years ago. More clearly expressed: The immediate cause of death is not a
poverty  of  the  blood  in  vital  substances,  but  from  too  much  obstruction.  “O”
(obstruction) becomes as great as or even greater than “P” (air-pressure) and the body
mechanism is at its “death point”.
I gave all of my festers lemonade with a trace of honey or brown sugar for loosening
and  thinning  the  mucus  in  the  circulation.  Lemon  juice  and  fruit  acids  of  all  kinds
neutralize  the  stickiness  of  mucus  and  pus  (acid  paste  cannot  be  used  for  sticking
purposes).
If a patient has ever taken drugs over his entire life period-which become stored up in
the  body  like  the  waste  from  food,  his  condition  might  easily  prove  serious  or  even
dangerous  when  these  poisons  enter  the  circulation,  when  he  takes  his  first  fast.
Palpitation of the heart, headaches, nervousness may set in, and especially insomnia. I
saw patients eliminate drugs they had taken as long as forty years before. Symptoms
such as described above are blamed on the “fast” by everybody, and especially doctors.
How Long Should One Fast?
Nature answers this question in the animal kingdom with a certain cruelty, “fast until
you are either healed or dead”! In my estimation 50 to 60% of the so-called “healthy”
men of today and 80 to 90% of the seriously chronic sick would die from their latent
diseases thru a long fast.
How long one should fast cannot be definitely stated at all, in advance, even in cases
where  the  condition  of  the  patient  is  known.  When  and  how  to  break  the  fast  is
determined  by  noting  carefully how  conditions  change  during  the  fast—you  now
understand that the fast should be broken as soon as you notice that the obstructions are
becoming too great in the circulation, and the blood needs new vital substances to resist
and neutralize the poisons.
Change your ideas regarding the claim “the longer you fast the better the cure”. You
may now readily understand why. Man is the sickest animal on earth; no other animal
has violated the laws of eating as much as man; no other animal eats as wrongly as man.
Here  is  the  point  where  human  intelligence  can  correctly  assist  in  the  self-healing

process  by  the  following  adjustments,  which  embrace  the  Mucusless  Diet  Healing
System:
First Prepare for an easier fast by a gradually changing diet towards a mucusless diet,
and by laxatives and enemas.
Second. Change shorter fasts periodically with some eating days of cleansing, mucus-
poor and mucusless diet.
Third. Be particularly careful if the patient used much drugs; especially if a mercury
or saltpetre, oxide of silver (taken for venereal diseases) have been used, in which case a
long, slowly changing, preparative diet is advisable.
An “expert's” suggestion to fast until the tongue is clean caused many troubles with
“fanatical” festers, and I personally know of one death. You may be surprised when I tell
you that I had to cure patients from the ill effects of too long a fast. The reason will be
clear later.
In spite of the above, every cure, and especially every cure of diet should start with a
two or three-day fast. Every patient can do this without any harm, regardless of how
seriously sick he may be. First a light laxative and then an enema daily, makes it easier
as well as harmless.
How to Break a Fast
The right food after a fast is as important and decisive for proper results as the fast
itself. At the same time, it depends entirely upon the condition of the patient, and very
much upon the length of the fast. You may learn from the results of the two extreme
cases, both of which ended fatally (not from the fast, but from the first wrong meal), just
why this KNOWLEDGE is so important.
A one-sided meat eater, suffering from diabetes, broke his fast, which lasted about a
week by eating dates and died from the effects. A man of over 60 years of age fasted
twenty-eight  days  (too  long);  his  first  meal  of  vegetarian  foods  consisting  mainly  of
boiled  potatoes.  A  necessary  operation  showed  that  the  potatoes  were  kept  in  the
contracted intestines by thick, sticky mucus so strong that a piece had to be cut off, and
the patient died shortly after the operation.
In the first case the terrible poisons loosened in the stomach of this one-sided meat
eater during his fast when mixed with the concentrated fruit sugar of the dates caused at
once so great a fermentation with carbonic acid gases and other poisons that the patient
could not stand the shock. The correct advice would be: First a laxative, later raw and
cooked  starchless  vegetables,  a  piece  of  rough  bran  bread  toast.  Sauerkraut  is  to  be
recommended in such cases. No fruits should be eaten for a long time after fast has been
broken. The patient should have been prepared for the fast by a longer transition diet.
In the second case the patient fasted entirely too long for a man of his age without
proper preparation. Hot compresses on the abdomen, high enemas might have helped the
elimination, together with a strong eliminative laxative and then starchless, mostly raw,
vegetables; no fruits for a considerable time.
Thru these two very instructive examples you may see how individually different the

advice must be, and how wrong it is to make up general suggestions concerning how to
break a fast.

Fasting (Continued)
LESSON XX.
Important Rules to be Carefully Studied
and Memorized
What can be said in general, and what I teach is new and different from the average
fasting experts, and is as follows:
1.   The first meal and the menus for a few days after a fast must be of a laxative
effect, and not of nourishing value as mostly all others think.
2.   The sooner the first meal passes thru the body the more efficiently it carries out
the loosened mucus and poisons of the intestines and the stomach.
3.   If no good stool is experienced after two or three hours, help with laxatives and
enemas. Whenever I fasted I always experienced a good bowel movement at
least one hour after eating, and at once felt fine. After breaking a long fast I
spent more time on the toilet than in bed the following night-and that was as it
should be.
While sojourning in Italy many years ago, I drank about three quarts of fresh grape
juice after a fast. At once I experienced a watery diarrhea set in foaming mucus. Almost
immediately  after  I  experienced  a  feeling  of  such  unusual  strength  that  I  easily
performed  the  knee-bending  and  arm-stretching  exercise  352  times.  This  removal  so
thoroughly of obstructions, taking place after a fast of a few days, increased “P”–vitality
at once! You will have to experience a similar sensation to believe me, and then you will
agree with my formula, “V”=“P”–“0”, and you will realize the absurdity of making up
scientific nourishing menus for health and efficiency.
4.   The longer the fast the more efficiently the bowels perform after it is over.
5.   The best laxative foods after a fast are fresh sweet fruits; best of all are cherries
and grapes then a little soaked or stewed prunes. These fruits must not be used
after a meat-eater's first fast, but only for people who have lived for a certain
time on mucusless or at least mucus-poor foods—the “transition diet”.
6.      In  the  average  case  it  is  advisable  to  break  the  fast  with  raw  and  cooked
starchless vegetables; stewed spinach has an especially good effect.
7.   If the first meal foods do not cause any unpleasantness, you may eat as much as
you can. Eating only a small quantity of food for the first 2 or 3 days without
experiencing  a  bowel  movement—owing  to  the  small  amount  of  food  taken
(another wrong advice given by “experts”)—is dangerous.
8.   If you are in the proper condition so that you can start eating with fruits, and you
have no bowel movement after about an hour, then eat more or eat a vegetable
meal as suggested above, eat until you bring out the waste accumulated during
the fast with your stool, after eating the first meal.
Rules During the Fast

1.   Clean the lower intestines as well as you can with enemas, at least every other
day.
2.   Before starting a longer fast, take a laxative occasionally and by all means the
day before you start the fast.
3.   If possible, remain in the fresh air, day and night.
4.   Take a walk, exercise, or some other physical work only when you feel strong
enough to do it; if tired and weak, rest and sleep as much as you can.
5.   On days that you feel weak, and you will experience such days when the waste is
in the circulation, you will find that your sleep is restless and disturbed and you
may experience bad dreams. This is caused thru the poisons passing thru the
brain. Doubt, loss of faith, will arise in your mind; then take this lesson and read
it over and over, as well as the other fasting chapters and especially Lesson 5.
Don't forget that you are, parenthetically speaking, lying on Nature's operating
table; the most wonderful of all operations that could be performed; and without
the use of a knife! If any extraordinary sensation occurs due to the drugs that are
now in the circulation, take an enema at once, lie down, and if necessary break
the fast, but not with fruits.
6.   Whenever you arise after lying down, do it slowly, otherwise you may become
dizzy.  The  latter  condition  is  not  serious,  but  you  had  better  avoid  it  in  this
manner.  It  caused  me  considerable  fear  in  the  beginning,  and  I  know  of  a
number  of  fasters  and  strict  eaters  who  gave  up  when  they  experienced  this
sensation—lost their faith forever.
Fasting Drinks
The “fanatic” fasting enthusiast drinks only water. He thinks it best to avoid any trace
of food whatsoever. I consider a light lemonade with a little honey or brown sugar or a
fruit juice the best. Drink as often as you care to during the day, but in general not more
than 2 or 3 quarts a day. The less you drink the more aggressive the fast works.
As a change, vegetable juices made from cooked starchless vegetables is very good
during a longer fast. Raw tomato juice, etc., is also good. But if fruit juice—for example,
orange juice, is used during a long fast, be extremely careful because the fruit juices may
cause the poisons to become loosened too rapidly without causing a bowel movement. I
know  a  number  of  such  fruit  or  fruit  juice  fasts  which  failed  completely  because  all
mucus and all poisons if loosened too fast and too much at one time disturbs all organs
too greatly when in the circulation, and can be eliminated only thru the circulation and
without the aid of bowel movements.
Morning Fast or Non-Breakfast Plan
The worst of all eating habits nowadays is to stuff the stomach with food early in the
morning.  In  European  countries,  excepting  England,  no  one  takes  a  regular  meal  for
breakfast; it is generally a drink of some kind with bread only.
The only time that man does not eat for 10 to 12 hours is during the night while he is
asleep. As soon as his stomach is free from food, the body starts the eliminating process

of  a  fast;  therefore  encumbered  people  awaken  in  the  morning  feeling  miserable  and
usually have a heavily coated tongue. They have no appetite at all, yet they demand food,
eat it, and feel better—WHY?
Another “Mystery” Revealed
This is one of the greatest problems I solved, and is one that puzzles all “experts” who
believe it is the food itself. As soon as you refill the stomach with food, THE ELIMINATION
IS  STOPPED  and  you  feel  better!  I  must  say  that  this  secret  which  I  discovered  is
undoubtedly the explanation of why eating became a habit and is no longer what Nature
intended it should be, namely a satisfaction, a compensation of Nature's need of food.
This  habit  of  eating,  affecting  all  civilized  mankind  and  now  physiologically
explained  involves  and  proves  the  saying  I  coined  long  ago:  “Life  is  a  tragedy  of
nutrition.”  The  more  waste  that  man  accumulates,  the  more  he  must  eat  to  stop  the
elimination. I had patients who had to eat several times during the night to be able to
sleep again. In other words, they had to put food in the stomach to avoid the digestion of
mucus and poisons accumulated there!

Fasting (Continued)
LESSON XXI.
You have just read in Lesson 20 about patients eating several times during the night in
order to sleep again. You have been taught why this happens. Upon awakening you may
perhaps feel fine, but instead of getting up you remain in bed and fall asleep again, have
a bad dream, and actually feel miserable upon awakening the second time. You can now
understand the exact reason for this.
As soon as you get up and move around, walk or exercise, the body is in an entirely
different condition than during the sleep. The elimination is slowed down, the energy
being used elsewhere.
If eating breakfast is eliminated from your daily menus, you will probably experience
some harmless sensations, such as headaches for the first one or two days, but after that
you  will  feel  much  better,  work  better,  and  enjoy  your  luncheon  better  than  ever.
Hundreds  of  severe  cases  have  been  cured  by  the  “non-breakfast-fast”  alone,  without
important changes in diet; proving that the habit of a full breakfast meal is the worst of
all, and most injurious.
It is advisable and really of great advantage to allow the patient to have the same drink
for breakfast that he is accustomed to; if he craves coffee, let him continue his drink of
coffee,  but absolutely  no  SOLID  food!  Later  on,  replace  the  coffee  with  a  warm
vegetable  juice,  and  still  later  change  to  lemonade.  This  change  should  be  made
gradually for the average mixed eater.
The 24-Hour Fast, or One Meal a Day Plan
As with the breakfast-fast, you can heal more severe cases with the 24-hour fast, or in
cases  of  deep  chronic  encumbrance  and  drugs  it  is  a  careful,  preliminary  step  to  the
necessary longer fasts. The best time to eat is in the afternoon, say, 3 or 4 o'clock P.M.
If the patient is on the mucusless or transition diet, let him eat the fruits first (fruits
should always be eaten first) and after an elapse of 15 or 20 minutes eat the vegetables;
but all should be eaten within an hour so that it is, so to say, one meal.
Fasting When Used in Connection With the
Mucusless Diet Healing System
As I have stated before, I am no longer in favor of long fasts. In fact it may become
criminal to let a patient fast for 30 or 40 days on water—contracting the avenues of
circulation, which are continually filled up more and more with mucus and by dangerous
old drugs and poisons, and at the same time rotten blood from his old “stock”; in fact
actually starving from necessary vital food elements. No one can stand a fast of that kind
without disadvantage, or without harming his vitality.
If fasting is to be used at all, then start at first withthe non-breakfast plan; then follow
with the 24-hour fast for a while; then gradually increase up to 3, 4 or 5-day fasts, eating
between  fasts  for  1,  2,  3  or  4  days  a  mucusless  diet,  combined  individually  as  an
elimination  adjustment,  and  at  the  same  time  supplying  and  rebuilding  the  body

continually  with  and  by  the  best  elements  contained  in  and  found  only  in  mucusless
foods.
Thru such an intermittent fast the blood is gradually improved, regenerated, can more
easily stand the poisons and waste, and is able at the same time to dissolve and eliminate
“disease deposits” from the deepest tissues  of  the  body;  deposits  that  no  doctor  ever
dreamed existed, and that no other method of healing has ever discovered or can ever
remove.
This, then, is the Mucusless Diet Healing System, with fasting an essential part of it.
Fasting in Cases of Acute Disease
“Hunger Cures—Wonder Cures” was the title of the first fasting book I ever read. It
gave the experiences of a country doctor, in which he said, “No feverish, acute disease
must nor can end with death if Nature's instinctive command, to stop eating thru lack of
appetite, is followed”.
It  is  insanity  to  give  food  to  a  pneumonia  patient  with  a  high  fever,  for  instance.
Having had an unusual contraction of the lung tissues by a “cold”, the pressed-out mucus
goes into the circulation and produces an unusual heat-fever. The human engine, already
at the bursting point thru heat, becomes more heated (feverish) thru partaking of solid
food, meat broth, etc. (good, nourishing foods, so-called).
Air baths taken in the room, enemas, laxatives, cool lemonade would save the lives of
thousands of young men who are now daily permitted to die, the innocent victims of
pneumonia or other acute diseases—due to the stubborn ignorance of doctors and so-
called highly civilized people.
The Superior Fast
Please try and memorize the lesson on Metabolism (Lesson 6) because it is the most
important truth of my new physiology; also Lesson 5, and you will clearly understand
fasting with all its possible sensations.
All experts, excepting myself, believe that you live from your own flesh during a fast.
You know now that what they call Metabolism—“Metabolize your own flesh when you
fast”, is simply the elimination of waste.
The  Indian  “fakir”,  the  greatest  faster  in  the  world  today,  is  nothing  but  skin  and
bones. I learned that the cleaner you are, the easier it is to fast, and the longer you can
stand it. In other words, in a body free from all waste and poisons, and when no solid
foods  are  taken,  the  human  body  functions  for  the  first  time  in  its  life  without
obstructions.  The  elasticity  of  the  entire  tissue  system,  and  of  the  internal  organs,
especially of the spongy lungs, work with an entirely different vibration and efficiency
than ever before, by air alone and without the slightest obstruction. Stated differently:
“V” equals “P” and if you simply supply the “engine” with the necessary water which is
used up, you ascend into a higher state of physical, mental and spiritual conditions. I call
that the “Superior Fast”,
If your blood “stock” is formed from eating the foods I teach, your brain will function
in a manner that will surprise you. Your former life will take on the appearance of a

dream, and for the first time in your existence your consciousness awakens to a real-self-
consciousness.
Your mind, your thinking, your ideals, your aspirations and your philosophy changes
fundamentally in such a way as to beggar description.
Your soul will shout for joy and triumph over all misery of life, leaving it all behind
you. For the first time you will feel a vibration of vitality through your body (like a
slight electric current) that shakes you delightfully.
You  will  learn  and  realize  that  fasting  and  superior  fasting  (and  not  volumes  of
psychology and philosophy) is the real and only key to a superior life; to the revelation
of a superior world, and to the spiritual world.

Destructive Diet of Civilization
and the Mucusless Diet, the
Natural Food of Man
LESSON XXII.
You have now learned that total abstinence from food—FASTING—is the best and
most effective method  of  healing.  This  proves  with  logical  consequence  how  small  a
quantity is in fact necessary to sustain life and justifies my oft-repeated statement: “The
wonder is that we live in spite of our excessive eating, in spite of our eating such wrong,
destructive foods”. In this light of truth it almost appears ridiculous to note the endless
fight  and  confusion  regarding  dietetics,  protein,  mineral  salts,  vitamins,  etc.  The
potential food value is not the first question at all. You cannot heal drunkenness by water
without  stopping  the  intake  of  alcohol.  You  cannot  heal  disease  thru  any  kind  of
adjustments, treatments or diets, without stopping the eating of the foods which produce
disease, the latter being 90% of the present day destructive diet of civilization.
I named the natural food of man, fruits and starchless greenleaf vegetables (as it is
said in Genesis, “fruits and herbs”) “Mucusless Diet”, because mucus is the main and
important and significant substance, while the other, wrong foods, contain, produce and
encumber the human body with the matter of disease.
The entire “teachings” of scientific dietetics, food values, statistics, etc., are useless
and in vain as long as the first step is not taken, and that is to see all foods and their
value from a principally different angle:
1.   How far and how much foods produce and leave disease matter (mucus) in the
body.
2.   Their dissolving, eliminating, healing properties. For this purpose I give you a
special critique of the different foods, wrong foods especially, and you can see
at  once  why  they  are  “destructive”  with  no  positive  food  value  at  all,  but
producing and leaving stored up waste in the body. See Lesson 14 and you will
find that Berg's investigations proved to be the same that I found by intuition,
experimenting and thru experience with myself and some thousands of patients.
MEATS
All are in a decomposing state, producing cadaver poisons, uric acid in the body and
mucus; fats are the worst, even butter is unusable for the human body. No animals eat
fat.
EGGS
Eggs are even worse than meats, because not only have eggs too high protein qualities,
but  they  contain  a  gluey  property  much  worse  than  meat  and  are  therefore  very
constipating, quite more so than meat. Hard boiled eggs are less harmful, because the
gluey qualities are destroyed; the white of eggs makes a very perfect glue.
MILK

Also makes a good glue for painting. Cow's milk is too rich for adults and for babies,
and plainly destructive. A baby's stomach cannot digest what a calf can. If milk must be
used than add at least half water and some milk sugar. Sour milk and buttermilk are less
harmful  and  possess  some  laxative  qualities;  the  gluey  sticky  properties  disappear.
Cottage cheese with stewed fruit (see Lesson 15) is good for transition diet. All other
kinds of cheese are highly acid and are mucus formers.
FATS
All fats are acid forming, even those of vegetable origin, and are not used by the body.
You will continue to like, crave and use them only as long as you can still see mucus in
the  “magic  mirror”.  What  doctors  call  heat  calories  is  caused  by  the  fats  in  friction,
obstruction in the circulation; they constipate the small blood vessels.
CEREALS
Cereals and all flour products form mucus and acid. The worst of all is white flour,
because  it  makes  the  best  paste.  Bran,  graham,  whole  wheat  or  rye  bread  are  less
harmful, because they have lost their sticky properties. When well done or toasted and
well baked they are much less harmful. Raw cereals, if toasted, are to some extent a
mucus broom, but contain stimulants, wrongly believed to be “food value”. Pies made of
rough unbaked dough are, according to my belief, absurd. When eaten with sweets and
acids they are mucus and gas producers the same as French pastry.
LEGUMES
Lentils, dried beans and dried peas are too rich in protein, the same as meat and eggs.
The peanut is a legume also.
POTATOES
A little better than flour products, because they contain more mineral salts (see Berg's
tables), nor do they make a good, sticky paste. Sweet potatoes come close to natural
sweets, but are too rich. Well fried, or crusty, baked like Saratoga chips, but without the
animal grease, sweet potatoes are almost mucusless.
RICE
Is one of the greatest mucus formers and makes an excellent paste. I firmly believe
thru my experience with serious cases of sickness (awful boils, etc.) prevalent among
one-sided  rice  eaters,  that  rice  is  the  foundational  cause  of  leprosy,  that  terrible
pestilence.
NUTS
All nuts are too rich in protein and fat and should be eaten only in winter, and then
only sparingly. Nuts should be chewed together with some dried sweet fruits or honey,
never with juicy fruits, because water and fat do not mix.
With the possible exception of nuts, the above represent about all of the foods which
have to be prepared in some manner for eating; in fact they are tasteless unless specially
prepared. All of these unnatural foods are extremely bitter, and in fact for a normal nose
they possess and offensive odor. The sense organs of man are in a pathological state

embodied in a “pus-like” mucus and waste, the same as the entire system, and being in a
partly  decayed  condition  themselves,  they  find  this  half-rotten  food  palatable.  If  the
tongue is clean from mucus, and the nose for the first time free from dirty filth, both
then become in fact “magic mirrors”, “revelation organs”, we may call them, the bridge
of the sixth sense, that is, to sense the truth. You lose all desire for, and in fact cannot
stand these stimulating spices, especially table salt, any longer. What civilized man calls
good to eat, delicious taste is absurd.
Even  then  you  would  and  could  not  eat  fats  or  animal  foods  without  the  cook's
“preparation”, that is, the art to cover the real taste and odor by spices and dressings. In
fact taste and smell vibrations are so far changed from the normal natural, that the heavy
meat eater does not like the wonderful odor of a ripe banana. He prefers “haut gout”, a
French word meaning “the smell of half-decayed meat”.
No scientific food value tables can convince you of the truth. You must sense it with
your cleansed organs, how wrongly you are fooled into believing that you nourish and
build up health and efficiency by these foods which are in reality destructive, because
they stimulate, or more truthfully, stop the elimination of your old waste until the day of
reckoning comes, when you become “officially” sick.
Paradoxically  but  true,  civilized  men  starve  to  death  thru  ten  times  too  much
overeating of wrong, destructive foods; the “sack” (stomach) of digestion is enlarged and
sunken, prolapsed, which condition dislocates and interferes with the proper functioning
of  the  other  organs.  Its  glands  and  pores  of  the  walls  are  totally  constipated  and  its
elasticity as well as that of the intestines, with its vital function is almost paralyzed. The
abdomen is an abnormally enlarged sack of fatty, watery, dislocated organs thru which
half or even more of the decayed foods of civilization slide, fermenting more and more
into feces such as no animal has, and this is called digestion!
“Natural Food of Man”, is the title of a book by Hereward Carrington.
There are some others by European authors, who prove and show from every point of
view that man has and must have lived in prehistoric times from unfired, natural foods,
fruits and greenleaf vegetables; however, a great philosopher once said: “Whatever must
be first proved is doubtful”. Whoever does not see or sense the truth at once will never
believe it, even if it is proven thousands of times and from every possible angle. Even
experts of fruit diet and raw food advocates have doubts that the degenerated man of
today can live the Paradisiacal life.
It took me a few years of continual testing and experimenting until I was thoroughly
convinced in spite of the fact that I believed it once. Now memorize what I teach in
Lesson 5 and in the lessons on the New Physiology. All others are on the wrong track,
misled by the protein fad as well as thru ignorance of how it looks inside of the body,
what  disease  is,  etc.,  but  especially  obstructive  to  a  recognition  of  the  truth  is  the
ignorance as to what happens in the body if you eat fruits, fast or live on a mucusless
diet. This fact that the interpretation of all and every sensation, which becomes more and
more strange and new, the more and deeper healing process goes on, is based on the Old
Physiology,  and  is  therefore  and  must  be  consequently  wrong.  It  is  and  was  the
“stumbling block” in the enlightenment about drugless healing in the first place, and

advanced  dietetics  in  particular.  The  natural  diet  was  never  systematically  taken  up,
especially  in  combination  with  fasting,  based  on  the  truth  of  my  new  but  correct
physiology. This is absolutely necessary to learn and to understand. If you believe and
know  unshakably  the  truth  of Lesson 5,  as  well  as  the  other  lessons  bearing  on  this
subject, you will never doubt any more that fruits alone, even of but one kind, not only
heal  but  nourish  perfectly  the  human  body,  eliminating  entirely  the  possibility  of
disease.
All others, not knowing these new truths and not possessing the necessary knowledge
contained  only  in  the  MUCUSLESS  DIET  HEALING  SYSTEM,  can  never  secure  a
perfectly clean body and a complete healing as well as possess an understanding of every
situation.
They will never believe in the divine perfectness of the “Bread of Heaven”, as it is
said “The Lord will punish them by blindness”, spiritual blindness, meaning that doubt,
losing faith and belief will return again and again as long as waste and old poisons are
circulating thru the brain for elimination. You are saved from this tragical error, I hope.
The special qualities of fruits, greenleaf vegetables and their perfectness as human
food is plainly shown in Berg's tables.
The more free you become from any kind of waste and poisons, the more you will
sense, feel and believe this greatest of all truths: “That the Paradisiacal diet is not only
sufficient but brings you higher and higher, into physical and mental conditions never
before experienced.”

Sex
LESSON XXIII.
Sex Diseases
Thru the knowledge in past lessons, you now know and can realize more than any
Naturopath  that  there  is  no  principal  difference  between  any  one  kind  of  disease  or
another.
In  this  particular  case,  however,  we  find  an  exception,  but  only  in  so  far  as  the
symptoms of syphilis are concerned. Venereal diseases can be healed by diet and fasting
easily  for  the  simple  reason  that  the  patient  is  generally  young  in  years.  The  cure
becomes more aggravated, made more difficult, if drugs have been used. This, of course,
has unfortunately happened in almost every case.
The  so-called  characteristic  symptoms  of  any  kind  of  syphilitic  disease  are  due  to
drugs of one or several kinds.
Gonorrhea
Nothing is easier to heal than this “cold” or “catarrh” at the sex organ, if untouched by
drugs or injections. Doctors must admit that this condition may exist without actual sex
intercourse,  and  therefore  the  germ  can  hardly  be  blamed.  Gonorrhea  is  simply  an
elimination  thru  this  natural  elimination  organ.  One-sided  meat  eaters  are  very
susceptible to this disease. Should a society girl contract it, they call it Leukorrhea.
If drug injections are used for any continued length of time the mucus and pus are
thrown back into the prostatic gland, bladder, etc. In case of the female the entire womb,
uterus becomes inflamed, producing all kinds of typical woman diseases.
I  had  hundreds  of  such  cases  where  Naturopathy  failed  to  heal.  Only  fasting  and
mucusless diet can help.
Roseola or rose rash, a syphilitical eczema, characterized by its “ham-gray” shade, the
gray shade of the whites of the eye, is due to saltpetre acid, silver oxide injections. This
also is the cause if gonorrhea enters the bone. All three are called syphilitic symptoms.
Mercury is to blame for the hard chancre, secondary and tertiary syphilis.
The so-called “syphilis” does not exist in the animal kingdom, or among uncivilized
people.  Drugs  are  to  blame  for  these  destructive  diseases,  together  with  the  diet  of
civilization. Sexual excesses are, of course, also to be blamed, but knowing exactly what
disease is, you may agree if I expose the “mystery” of this disease with one stroke, i.e.,
drugs  and  extreme  meat  diet  of  civilization  are  far  more  to  blame  than  all  sexual
excesses together.
For a patient poisoned especially by mercury a very careful and long transition diet is
necessary. A radical fruit diet or fast may become harmful, not thru itself but caused by
the drugs when they become dissolved and are back in the blood stream for elimination.
This  condition  requires  so  careful  a  control  of  the  elimination  that  under  all
circumstances and expert with previous experience is required.

The so-very-common disease of dislocation, or falling of the womb, can be healed and
only by this diet, together with long fastings combined with short fasts and with a long
preparative diet.
Prostatic  gland  inflammation,  stricture,  bladder  disease,  hundreds  of  these  patients
have I saved from the tortures of doctors. I have made cures even after Naturopathy had
failed  by  natural  methods  of  elimination  thru  a  new  and  perfect  blood  composition
resulting from a mucusless diet
Sex Psychology
It is significant for our civilization that sexual intercourse is seen as an immoral act. It
is yet in the shade of a mystery. From a natural moral standpoint, says a philosopher, an
unclean  man  has  no  right  to  produce  a  new  being.  “You  shall  not  only  generate,  but
reproduce yourself”, says that great thinker, Nietzsche.
The fact is that we are all, with very few exceptions, the result of stimulants instead of
love vibrations exclusively. Procreation is the most holy and divine act and charged with
the highest responsibility, especially on the part of the father. A germ with the slightest
defect is a generation not forward but downward. In very old and in classic civilization
“Sex” was a cult, a religion, and in every mystology, poetry of all civilized people, love
is  the  great,  main  and  general  subject  with  the  conscious  or  unconscious  goal  to
reproduce his kind.
The fact is proven by statistics that every family of the city's population dies out,
disappears with the third or fourth generation. In other words, the “sins” of the fathers
and of the mothers produce diseased children and children's children degenerating into
death with the third generation. What are these “sins”? You shall “love thy neighbor”,
and you do, perhaps, but you kill your own child, partly at least before it is born. Latent
disease is general and universal. Besides the statistical fact that over fifty per cent of all
young  men  in  large  cities  have  gonorrhea  and  young  women  Leukorrhea,  how  can  a
defective germ grow into a perfect being between a filthy, mostly constipated colon and
an unclean bladder of a civilized mother? And one of the worst tragedies of ignorance is
the expectant mother who eats twice as much decayed “cadavers” of animals killed years
ago in the stock yards of Chicago, because she is advised to “eat for two”—herself and
the growing embryo.
Natural Control of Sex
“Nothing above the truth—confess your sins to your own heart.” It is a blasphemic
paradox,  tragical  (there  is  no  word  strong  enough)  condition  to  stimulate  a  function
continually with enforcement ignorantly expecting thereby to grow healthy and happy,
believing you can suppress or control this function by preaching morals.
Nature does not listen to you, but you must listen to Nature if you want to be happy.
We are the product of stimulation's and not of natural love vibrations which eventually
lead to impotence.
The only way to heal impotence is thru fasting and this diet. See Lesson 5. Sex is a
part of vitality, it is even so to say, the barometer of regeneration, rejuvenation, youth,
health and happiness.

I have seen sterility of the female healed, and every patient who earnestly took up this
system for any kind of disease “rejuvenated”.
No one of western civilization knows what genuine “love vibrations” mean from a
body with clean blood composed of such ingredients that produce electric currents and
static electricity sent out and received by “wireless”—hair. See what I have to say about
hair in my “Rational Fasting”. The beard of man is a secondary sex organ. Beardless and
hairless and bald makes for “second-rate” sex quality in every respect. See Judges 16:15-
20.
If you could believe how easy it is to control sex by this diet you would soon quit your
steaks and eggs.
Masturbation, night emissions, prostitution, etc., are all eliminated from the sex life of
anyone living on a mucusless diet after their body has become clean and powerful.
The fallacy that saving, keeping the germ (an idea of modern experts) will nourish
man's brain (high protein substance) is absurd. Love is the greatest power and it is, if
natural, the highest “invisible food” from the infinite for soul and body.

Sex (Continued)
LESSON XXIV.
Motherhood and Eugenics
Motherhood  with  mucusless  diet,  before,  during  and  after  pregnancy  is  the
development  towards  the  Madonna-like,  holy  purity  principally  different  from  the
dangerous so-called “ordinary” childbirth, with its ever-present risk of life, known in our
present civilization.
If the female body is perfectly clean thru this diet, the menstruation disappears. In
scripture it is called by the significant word “purification”, which it in fact is; clean—no
longer polluted by the monthly flow of impure blood and other waste. This is the ideal
condition of an inside purity capable of the “immaculate conception”. When seen in the
light of this truth the entire “Madonna mystery” is easily understood.
Every one of my female patients reported their menses as becoming less and less, then
a two, three and four months' intermission, and finally entirely disappearing, which latter
condition was experienced by those who went thru a perfect cleansing process by this
diet.
Headaches,  toothaches,  vomiting  and  all  other  so-called  “diseases  of  pregnancy”
disappear and painless childbirth, an ample sufficiency of very sweet milk, babies that
never  cry,  babies  who  are  very  differently  “clean”,  as  compared  with  others,  are  the
wonderful facts that I have learned from every woman becoming a mother after having
lived on this diet.
It  is  not  advisable  to  start  a  radical  change  in  diet  during  pregnancy,  or  while
nursing; this should be done at least two or three months before conception.
“Eating for two”, with a special diet is unnecessary if the body is clean. Modern babies
are  overfed,  hence  these  dangerous  childbirth's.  The  only  reasonable  change  is  to
increase the eating of natural sweets such as figs, raisins, dates, grapes, etc.
Feeding the Baby
If mother's milk is found to be insufficient or bad, do not use plain cow's milk; it
should  be  diluted  with  at  least  one-third  to  one-half  water  and  sweetened  with  milk,
sugar or honey. Start feeding the baby as soon as possible a teaspoonful of good fruit
juices (juice from stewed beets is also good), and honey diluted in water between meals.
The baby's craving is sweet, and proves that fruit sugar is the “essence” of all dietetics.
What is considered a well-fed and healthy looking baby, of average normal weight, is
in reality pounds of waste of decayed milk.
Whether the baby is sick or not, as soon as you commence feeding it fruit juices and
stewed mash fruits, you will learn from the elimination that I am correct. The change
must  therefore  be  made  very  carefully.  Babies  and  children  must  go  thru  the  same
cleansing  healing  process,  as  do  adults.  I  believe  that  a  baby  well  nursed  by  good
mother's milk on this diet and without “special” protein foods will grow wonderfully,
and after the weaning period is over could be raised on apples alone.

As stated before, if a change of this kind in the baby's diet is made, they must be
healed  first—whether  sick  or  not—cleansed  from  the  waste  of  their  “latent  disease”.
That is the point that everyone refused to believe, realize or understand.
Natural  sweets  are  necessary  for  the  growing  child  for  building  a  strong  skeleton.
Lime is also important. (See Berg's Tables).
I learned thru the few examples that we had in Europe, that the character, the mind in
general of the growing child, is greatly and beneficially influenced by this diet, with the
progress of the purity of the body. The “troubles” of raising children from which you can
be saved are enormous. No more children's disease!
Thousands  of  pregnant  mothers,  innocently  thru  overeating,  half  kill  their  children
before they are born. Here then is the only correct way to fight infantile mortality. There
is no higher moral duty of any kind than to produce a perfect being.
Eugenics of a Diseaseless, Superior Race
Using a plant as a comparison, “motherhood” can be said to represent the QUALITY of
the soil; “fatherhood” represents the quality of the seed—of the germ.
A relatively poor, almost barren soil but a good quality of seed produces a fairly good
plant, but a defective seed, even though planted in the best of soil, NOTHING.
Breeders  of  animals,  especially  horse  breeders,  know  that  the  quality  of  a
thoroughbred  father  goes  thru  endless  generations,  even  spanning  over  a  chain  of
“indifferent” mothers. This is why inheritance of good and bad qualities (tuberculosis for
instance) skips a whole generation.
As in every respect of life this problem is different also, and, of course, is different in
the  case  of  a  clean  body  on  natural  diet.  Medical  doctors  and  Naturopaths  alike  will
hardly believe at all in the new principles and arguments, which I have brought out, and
postulated in this work. They reason and figure with the facts and experiences of the
filthy body living on the unnatural diet of civilization.
One  cannot  reason  about  colors  with  a  man  born  blind.  You  cannot  use  the  old
arguments and the old physiology to gainsay my statements.
Until you have personally experienced on your own body the truth of my teachings,
you will have to accept and believe the new ones.
Realize, please, what this means—SUPERIOR FASTINGS—as they were taken by the
prophets of old.
During a period covering some decades, and even partly today, the science of eugenics
believed in the necessity of outside breeding. They consider outside breeding an absolute
necessity for animals and the human race based on the bad results, which accrued from
the inbreeding of humans.
It is nothing less than the problem of the future of the American Nation—mixing races
or  inbreeding?  The  Jewish  race  is  the  answer,  the  only  example  in  existence  that
inbreeding is natural and perfect. Marriage of close relationship fails simply because we
have  degenerated  too  far,  in  comparison  with  the  people  of  their  ancestor Abraham.

Outside breeding is a “stimulation” with an apparently good result, lasting only for one
or two generations and then, in general, the family dies out.
The European royal family kept their genealogical tree clean, securing good results
only as long as they did not live in modern luxury. The families of noblemen are rapidly
disappearing because they fail to continue the generation of males. The luxurious diet of
today  instead  of  the  old-fashioned  simplicity  of  centuries  ago  is  to  blame.  Former
generations  lived  as  farmers  (a  more  natural  life).  Today  they  are  the  typical  “high
livers” in modern Sodoms; no wonder an expiring degeneration is the result!
Predetermination of Sex
What I will endeavor to show here is how to produce a genius, and this will prove at
the same time that the predetermination of the sex is based on a higher principle than on
the time of conception only.
Again and again, diet is everything; man is what he eats! Are not all geniuses, great
men, inventors, the greatest artists of every kind, born of poor parentage?
Why did the birth of boy babies increase during the European war? They will become
good and intelligent men. Restriction in diet and restriction in sexual intercourse, that is
all! The cleaner the body of both parents, the less frequent the intercourse, the smaller
the  quantity  of  good  food,  the  greater  the  love  vibrations  become,  and  with  these
conditions the better the chance for a genius, and that is always a boy. The most ideal
example of this truth, and it is said to be an historical fact, is this:
During the black plague centuries ago, a number of young people took refuge together
in a house in the neighborhood of Florence, Italy. For weeks they had nothing to eat and
then, of course, only sparsely. They became married and generated the family of the
Medici,  which  produced  the  greatest  statesmen,  artists  and  scientists  of  every  kind
known in the history of western civilization.
We  know  that  vitality  vibrates  thru  a  waste-free  body  more  perfectly  than  one
encumbered with food, that is the superior fast with its indescribable conditions. Yet
more difficult of description are love vibrations—when man ascends to a God-like being,
as  he  must  have  been  in  prehistoric  times  on  the  divine  diet.  The  magnetic  sex
emanations become so wonderful that love combined with gluttony appears as a crime.
For the young couple to fast on their wedding day is a Jewish religious custom, but it
is only a reminder of a hygienic law of that great statesman Moses—to generate geniuses
thru superior waves of love thru the infinite.
It  is  the  principle  by  which  the  male  stock,  when  living  on  “clean”  food  has  the
opportunity to generate a diseaseless, superior one.
Everyone who travels a little further upwards on the road towards the “paradise-like”
conditions of man will soon sense this truth. Man was once a higher, superior kind of
being, not a species of the monkey family! We are only a shade of the original man,
caused thru our degeneration, but you may yet experience what cannot be described, that
this kind of eugenics is the fundamental truth of evolution into “Heaven on Earth”!

The Enforcement of Elimination by
Physical Adjustments
LESSON XXV.
As shown in previous lessons all physical treatments vibrate—shake—the tissues and
thereby  stimulate  the  circulation  in  one  way  or  another  for  the  purpose  and  with  the
result  of  loosening  and  eliminating  “foreign  matters”,  the  cause  of  all  diseases.  The
human body does this itself, in the most perfect way, as soon as you fast or as soon as
your blood composition has been changed by natural diet.
Physical treatments and physical culture can therefore be combined with this diet and
fasting to enforce and to hasten the elimination. However, I must advise that extreme
care be taken not to exaggerate—especially on “bad” days—days of strong elimination.
If you are tired and you feel bad, then rest and sleep just as much as you can. On the days
that you feel “good” during a fast or strict diet, you may take some physical treatment
also, such as exercise, baths, massage, deep breathing, etc.
The most natural exercises and by far the best, are walking, dancing and singing; the
latter  being  the  natural  breathing  exercise  with  the  added  advantage  of  loosening  by
chest vibrations. An excellent “exercise” and one that everybody knows, is hiking in the
mountains, for when climbing hills, you increase your breathing in the most natural way,
better and more harmoniously than with any “system” of exercises.
The cleaner you become the more easily you will understand what I teach in Lesson
5—that air and the other ingredients of the forests are “food”—invisible food.
Both  hands  should  be  free  when  walking,  so  as  to  permit  continually  the  natural
movements.
Outdoor garden work is another natural exercise.
By  taking  the  proper  care  of  your  body  you  will  generate  health.  The  following
exercises are suggested for those who desire to keep physically fit. I must again remind
you that air is more necessary to life than food. Proper breathing is therefore essential.
Do not exercise in a close, stuffy room. Stand before an open window. Take a deep, full
breath with each exercise. Inhale through nose and expel through mouth. Stand before a
mirror while exercising and admire the suppleness and graceful manner in which you
perform each movement. Fall in love with yourself if no one else will. Keep the feet
about 15 inches apart—stand erect and use muscular tension.
Exercise No. 1
Standing erect, hands to the side, clench the fists tightly. Raise arms slowly as high
above the head as possible, taking a deep breath. Relax and expel breath. Repeat five
times.
Exercise No. 2
Extend arms level with chest. Grasp hands tightly and pull to right side, resisting with
left  hand.  Then  go  thru  same  motion  pulling  to  left  side.  Relax  after  each  motion,
expelling breath. Repeat each exercise five times.

Exercise No. 3
Grasp left hand firmly with the right in front of body. Resisting with the left-hand lift
with the right, using full strength while raising the arms high above head. Take deep
breath on upward motion, and relax before expelling. Repeat with the right hand resisting
with the left, five times each.
Exercise No. 4
Clasp hands above the head allowing them to rest on head. Bend to the right side,
pulling hard, then to the left five times, then alternate first left and then right. Between
each  movement  take  deep  breath  and  expel  when  relaxed.  This  exercise  is  especially
good for stimulating the liver.
Exercise No. 5
Clasp hands in back of neck, holding all muscles tense. Twist to the right, then to the
left five times. Now pull to the right and then to the left five times. Now pull to the left
and then to the right five times. Hold legs rigid, but permit body to sway.
Exercise No. 6
Grasp the hands behind the back and without bending the body raise arms up as far as
possible. Inhale on upward motion, relax and expel. Repeat five times. This exercise is
for developing the chest.
Exercise No. 7
Place right hand over right hip, clench left fist and raise left arm slowly, taking a deep
breath. At the same time bend the body as far to the right as possible. Make it hurt. Relax
and expel breath. Repeat with left hand placed on hip, and raising right arm with fist
tightly clenched. Repeat each five times.
Exercise No. 8
Grasp hands firmly in front of breast, all muscles tense and twist to left. Now twist to
right as far as possible. Do not permit feet to move. Inhale during motion, relax and
expel breath. Repeat each exercise five times.
Exercise No. 9
Raise  arms  above  the  head  as  high  as  possible,  and  even  permitting  body  to  bend
backwards. Now bend body forward and without bending the knees try to touch the floor
with your fingers. Exhale breath when relaxed. Repeat this exercise slowly five times,
and gradually increase to 20 times.
Do not exhaust yourself in any of the exercises. If the exercises make you stiff at first
it is a sure sign that you needed them, and that they are doing you good. The soreness
will  soon  wear  off  if  you  continue  the  exercises  persistently.  You  may  add  other
exercises to these, but be sure they have the deep breathing. Play your phonograph when
exercising.  Any  snappy  march  piece  will  do.  The  vibrations  from  the  music  are
wonderful. It is preferable to exercise the first thing in the morning—immediately upon
arising. If clothing is worn it should be loose. Start with a few at first and gradually
increase, but above all things, do not consider it a duty, but put fun into them. Dancing

by  yourself  and  bending  movements  to  the  accompaniment  of  music  will  prove  very
beneficial.
Sun Baths
Whenever you have an opportunity of doing so, take a sun bath. In the beginning do
not exceed 20 to 30 minutes and keep the head covered. On “bad” days—days of great
elimination—stay cool.
The cleaner you become the more you will enjoy the sunbath and the longer you will
remain. You will also find that you can stand it much warmer. A short cool shower bath
or a cool rub with a towel dampened in cold water immediately after the sunbath is good.
The  sunbath  is  an  excellent  “invisible”  waste  eliminator,  and  rejuvenates  the  skin,
causing it to become like silk and coloring it a natural brown. Civilized men of our race
show by their white skin that they are sick from birth on; they inherit the mucused, white
blood corpuscles—the “sign of death”.
As all of the clothing should be removed during a sunbath, a small enclosure just long
enough  to  lay  in  should  be  built  in  your  back  yard,  or  even  on  the  roof,  away  from
prying, inquisitive eyes. The clothing of civilization has made it impossible for man to
secure his proper quota of the life-giving power of fresh air and sunshine, so essential to
health and happiness. The direct rays of the sun on the naked body supply the electricity,
energy  and  vitality  to  the  human  storage  battery,  renewing  it  in  vigor,  strength  and
virility.
Internal Baths
During the transition period, even though you have regular bowel movements, it is
advisable  to  wash  out  the  lower  colon.  The  sticky  waste,  slimy  mucus  and  various
poisons which Nature is attempting to eject should be helped along as much as possible.
A small bulb infant syringe can be used after the regular bowel movement, but for a
thorough cleansing from two to three quarts of water should be used.
Try to have a natural bowel movement before injecting the water. The body should be
in a reclining position, lying on the right side. The syringe must not be higher than three
or four feet above patient. Water should be warm, not hot, and can be tested on your
elbow. Should any discomfort be felt, stop the flow until the discomfort passes as the
entire two or three quarts should be retained at one time. If the cramp or pain becomes
too great, allow the water to pass from the colon and repeat the operation.
The  water  should  remain  in  the  intestines  about  15  or  20  minutes,  or  as  long  as
convenient.  While  still  lying  on  your  side  gently  massage  the  ascending  colon  in  an
upward motion. Then lie on the back with the knees drawn up and massage from right
side of body to left; now turn over, lying on the left side and massage the left side with a
downward motion. You should now be ready for ejecting the water. The best time to take
an enema is just before retiring.
Bathing
Authorities differ on bathing almost as widely as they do on diet. The Mucusless Diet
System will produce the “skin you love to touch” thru clean blood supply, and without

the aid of cosmetics, lotions and cold creams.
It  is  not  necessary  to  take  a  daily  hot  bath  with  soap  and  brush  under  ordinary
conditions.
The  morning  “cold  shower”  during  the  entire  year  without  any  consideration  of
weather conditions is also inadvisable. There is no need to deliberately subject the body
to an extreme shock, and in a number of cases more harm than good may result.
Needless to state the skin must be kept clean so that the pores may be permitted to
properly function, and this can be accomplished by the following method: Place a basin
of cool water before you. Dip the hands in basin and starting with the face rub briskly;
wet the hands again and apply to the neck and shoulders; next rub the chest and stomach;
next the arms and then the back and last the legs and feet. Put the feet right into the basin
if  you  care  to.  Keep  moistening  the  hands  as  needed,  but  there  is  no  necessity  for
throwing any quantity of water on the body. To dry off rub with the bare hands for five
minutes if possible, until the body is all aglow or wipe with towel. This should be done
upon arising immediately after you have taken your exercises. The results will surprise
you. If you prefer a tub bath then allow about one inch of cold water to run into the tub.
Sit in same with knees drawn up and follow the same rule of rubbing and massage as
outlined above.
Remember that the air bath is just as essential as the water bath. A few minutes each
day spent before an open window, upon arising and just before retiring, when all clothes
are  removed,  massaging  the  body—helps  the  skin  to  retain  its  natural  functioning
qualities.
Always bear in mind that extremes of any kind are harmful. This applies to exercise,
bathing and sleeping, as well as extremes in eating. Even extreme joy and happiness has
been known to kill just as readily as extreme anger, hate and worry. Therefore, AVOID
EXTREMES OF ALL KINDS.

A Message to Ehretists
LESSON XXVI.
Dear Friends:
After careful and intelligent study of the foregoing lessons, you now know that disease
consists  of  an  unknown,  decayed  and  fermented  mass  of  matter  in  the  human  body,
decades old—especially in the intestines and colon. You likewise know how unwise and
ignorant it is to think that knowing what to eat is, alone, a complete diet of healing.
None of the recognized authorities know the tremendous importance of a thorough and
deep cleansing of the human “cesspool”. All are more or less “fooled” by Nature when
they  advise  eating  of  fruits,  with  stomach  and  intestines  clogged  up  by  mucus  and
decomposed protein foods, eaten from childhood on.
You  have  been  taught  the  result;  should  these  poison—cyanide  of  potassium—be
dissolved  too  rapidly  and  permitted  to  enter  the  circulation,  severe  sensations—even
death—may occur and man's natural food, oranges, grapes, dates, etc., are blamed!
My teachings clearly prove that this hitherto unexplained ignorance regarding fruit
diet is the “stumbling block” for all other food research experts, who have made personal
experimental tests. Thousands of times have I heard the same cry—even from young and
supposedly healthy persons—“I became weak”! And all experts with the exception of
myself say, “Yes, you require more protein; at least eat nuts”.
During  my  personal  tests,  involving  this  same  problem,  I  tried  to  overcome  this
“stumbling-block”  hundreds  of  times.  After  a  two-years'  cure,  in  Italy,  of  Bright's
disease with consumptive tendency, by fasting and strict living on a mucusless diet, I ate
two pounds of the sweetest grapes and drank half a gallon of fresh, sweet grape juice,
made from the best and most wonderful grapes grown there. Almost immediately I felt
as though I were going to die! A terrible sensation overcame me, palpitation of the heart,
extreme dizziness that forced me to lie down and I was seized with severe pains in the
stomach  and  intestines. After  ten  minutes  the  great  event  occurred-a  mucus  foaming
diarrhea  and  vomiting  of  grape  juice  mixed  with  acid-smelling  mucus  and  then  the
greatest event of all! I felt so wonderfully well and strong that I at once performed the
knee-bending and arm-stretching exercises 326 times consecutively. All obstructions had
been removed!
For the first time in history I have shown what man was when be lived without “fired”
foods-during the prehistoric times (called Paradise) eating fruits, the “bread of heaven”.
For the first time in human history this “demon” in the tragedy of human life has been
shown—and  how  he can and must  be  eliminated—before  man  can  again  ascend  to  a
Paradisiacal health, happiness, immunity from disease and “God-like” being.
If  the  Garden  of  Eden—heaven  on  earth—ever  existed  it  must  have  been  a  “fruit
orchard”. For thousands of years, through a wrong civilization, man has been tricked into
unconscious suicide, reduced to slavery, to product wrong food, “earning his bread by the
sweat of his brow”. Unnatural foods cause sickness and death.

“Peace on Earth” happiness and righteousness as yet remain a foolish dream. During
thousands  of  years,  God,  Paradise,  Heaven—Sin,  Devil,  Hell—seldom  found  an
interpretation  that  a  clear,  reasoning  mind  would  willingly  accept.  The  average
unfortunate fellowman thinks of God as a good and forgiving Father who will allow him
to enter Paradise in another world—unpunished for any violations of His laws in Nature.
I have proven for the first time in history that the diet of Paradise is not only possible
—good  enough  for  a  degenerate  mankind,  such  as  we  now  are—but  that  it  is  the
Unconditional  Necessity  and  the  first  step  to  real  salvation  and  redemption  from  the
misery of life. That it is a needed key to the lost Paradise where disease, worry and
sorrow—hate, fighting and murder were unknown, and where there was no death, from
unnatural causes at least.
“Man is what he eats” is a philosopher's greatest and truest statement.
You must now see why civilization, all religion, all philosophy, with their tremendous
sacrifice  of  work,  time,  money,  energy,  is  and  has  been  part  guesswork.  The  magic
formula for “Heaven on Earth”—of the Paradise—must read like this:
“Eat your way into Paradise physically.” But you cannot pass the gate, watched over
by  the  angel  with  the  flaming  sword,  until  you  have  gone  through  the  purgatory
(cleansing fire) of fasting and diet of healing—a cleansing, a physiological purifying, by
the “Flame of Life” in your own body! During thousands of years no one has escaped the
struggle of death caused by an unnatural life, and you will have to face it some day.
But you, I and others who have learned this greatest and most important truth of life,
are the only ones in existence today who are in fact, and not by mind only, out of the
road of darkness and unconscious suicide, and into the light of the new civilization—the
light of a physical regeneration—as the Foundation of Mental and Spiritual Revelation-
like Progress to the light of a superior, that is to say, a spiritual world.
This will give an outline of the serious nature of my work—and the necessity for your
help in carrying it through as the greatest deed you can perform—upon which depends
not only your future destiny, but that of a suffering, unhappy mankind—on the verge of a
physical and mental collapse.
ARNOLD EHRET.

OTHER BOOKS BY ARNOLD EHRET
RATIONAL FASTING for PHYSICAL MENTAL & SPIRITUAL REJUVENATION
This  thought  provoking  book  by  Prof.  Ehret  has  aided  thousands  to  enjoy  health  through  fasting.  Rational
Fasting also includes, “YOUR ROAD TO REGENERATION” by Prof. Ehret, “MY ROAD TO HEALTH” and
“BUILD YOUR  OWN  ROAD  TO  HEALTH”  by  Teresa  Mitchell,  “INTERNAL  CLEANLINESS”  by  Fred  S.
Hirsch and “THE DEFINITE CURE OF CHRONIC CONSTIPATION” by Prof. Ehret.
THE CAUSE AND CURE OF HUMAN ILLNESS (Kranke Menschen)
Translated  by  Professor  Dr.  Ludwig  Max  Fischer. A  way  to  take  your  health  back  into  your  own  hands. A
solution to man's modern ailments. It was proposed and articulated by a nutritionist, Arnold Ehret, in a book
written 100 years ago.
PAMPHLETS ON EHRET'S TEACHINGS
THUS SPEAKETH THE STOMACH also THE TRAGEDY OF NUTRITION
PHYSICAL FITNESS THRU A SUPERIOR DIET, FASTING AND DIETETICS
OTHER BOOKS OF INTEREST
THE GRAPE CURE by Johanna Brandt.
The  author  offers  her  personal  contribution  toward  the  solution  of  the  Cancer  problem  and  her  personal
experiences in overcoming this dreaded ailment. This book is intended more as a Cancer preventive.
LIVE FOODS by George and Doris Fathman.
A book dedicated to Prof. Ehret's teachings of nature's perfect system of human nutrition. There are 192 recipes
plus meal suggestions for mucusless and mucuslean diets.
For information on the Ehret Health Club, the Club Newsletter or information on any of
our publications please write to:
Ehret Literature Publishing Co., Inc.
P.O. Box 24, Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522-0024
U.S.A.
Please visit our website at www.arnoldehret.org

MEMORANDA